introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: What is Agno?
description: "Agno is a python framework for building multi-agent systems with shared memory, knowledge and reasoning."
sidebarTitle: What is Agno?
---

Engineers and researchers use Agno to build:

- **Level 1:** Agents with tools and instructions ([example](/introduction/agents#level-1%3A-agents-with-tools-and-instructions)).
- **Level 2:** Agents with knowledge and storage ([example](/introduction/agents#level-2%3A-agents-with-knowledge-and-storage)).
- **Level 3:** Agents with memory and reasoning ([example](/introduction/agents#level-3%3A-agents-with-memory-and-reasoning)).
- **Level 4:** Agent Teams that can reason and collaborate ([example](/introduction/multi-agent-systems#level-4%3A-agent-teams-that-can-reason-and-collaborate)).
- **Level 5:** Agentic Workflows with state and determinism ([example](/introduction/multi-agent-systems#level-5%3A-agentic-workflows-with-state-and-determinism)).

**Example:** Level 1 Reasoning Agent that uses the YFinance API to answer questions:

```python Reasoning Finance Agent
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.anthropic import Claude
from agno.tools.reasoning import ReasoningTools
from agno.tools.yfinance import YFinanceTools

reasoning_agent = Agent(
    model=Claude(id="claude-sonnet-4-20250514"),
    tools=[
        ReasoningTools(add_instructions=True),
        YFinanceTools(stock_price=True, analyst_recommendations=True, company_info=True, company_news=True),
    ],
    instructions="Use tables to display data.",
    markdown=True,
)
```

<Accordion title="Watch the reasoning finance agent in action">
  <video
    autoPlay
    muted
    controls
    className="w-full aspect-video"
    style={{ borderRadius: "8px" }}
    src="/videos/reasoning_finance_agent.mp4"
  ></video>
</Accordion>

# Getting Started

If you're new to Agno, learn how to build your [first Agent](/introduction/agents), chat with it on the [playground](/introduction/playground) and [monitor](/introduction/monitoring) it on [app.agno.com](https://app.agno.com).

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="Your first Agents"
    icon="user-astronaut"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/introduction/agents"
  >
    Learn how to build Agents with Agno
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Agent Playground"
    icon="comment-dots"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="introduction/playground"
  >
    Chat with your Agents using a beautiful Agent UI
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Agent Monitoring"
    icon="rocket-launch"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="introduction/monitoring"
  >
    Monitor your Agents on [agno.com](https://app.agno.com)
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

After that, dive deeper into the [concepts below](/introduction#dive-deeper) or explore the [examples gallery](/examples) to build real-world applications with Agno.

# Why Agno?

Agno will help you build best-in-class, highly-performant agentic systems, saving you hours of research and boilerplate. Here are some key features that set Agno apart:

- **Model Agnostic**: Agno provides a unified interface to 23+ model providers, no lock-in.
- **Highly performant**: Agents instantiate in **~3μs** and use **~6.5Kib** memory on average.
- **Reasoning is a first class citizen**: Reasoning improves reliability and is a must-have for complex autonomous agents. Agno supports 3 approaches to reasoning: Reasoning Models, `ReasoningTools` or our custom `chain-of-thought` approach.
- **Natively Multi-Modal**: Agno Agents are natively multi-modal, they accept text, image, audio and video as input and generate text, image, audio and video as output.
- **Advanced Multi-Agent Architecture**: Agno provides an industry leading multi-agent architecture (**Agent Teams**) with reasoning, memory, and shared context.
- **Built-in Agentic Search**: Agents can search for information at runtime using 20+ vector databases. Agno provides state-of-the-art Agentic RAG, **fully async and highly performant.**
- **Built-in Memory & Session Storage**: Agents come with built-in `Storage` & `Memory` drivers that give your Agents long-term memory and session storage.
- **Structured Outputs**: Agno Agents can return fully-typed responses using model provided structured outputs or `json_mode`.
- **Pre-built FastAPI Routes**: After building your Agents, serve them using pre-built FastAPI routes. 0 to production in minutes.
- **Monitoring**: Monitor agent sessions and performance in real-time on [agno.com](https://app.agno.com).

# Dive deeper

Agno is a battle-tested framework with a state of the art reasoning and multi-agent architecture, read the following guides to learn more:

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card title="Agents" icon="user-astronaut" iconType="duotone" href="/agents">
    Learn how to build lightning fast Agents.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Teams" icon="microchip" iconType="duotone" href="/teams">
    Build autonomous multi-agent teams.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Models" icon="cube" iconType="duotone" href="/models">
    Use any model, any provider, no lock-in.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Tools"
    icon="screwdriver-wrench"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools"
  >
    100s of tools to extend your Agents.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Reasoning"
    icon="brain-circuit"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/reasoning"
  >
    Make Agents "think" and "analyze".
  </Card>
  <Card title="Knowledge" icon="server" iconType="duotone" href="/knowledge">
    Give Agents domain-specific knowledge.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Vector Databases"
    icon="spider-web"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/vectordb"
  >
    Store and search your knowledge base.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Storage" icon="database" iconType="duotone" href="/storage">
    Persist Agent session and state in a database.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Memory"
    icon="lightbulb"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/agents/memory"
  >
    Remember user details and session summaries.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Embeddings"
    icon="network-wired"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/embedder"
  >
    Generate embeddings for your knowledge base.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Workflows"
    icon="diagram-project"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/workflows"
  >
    Deterministic, stateful, multi-agent workflows.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Evals" icon="shield" iconType="duotone" href="/evals">
    Evaluate, monitor and improve your Agents.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

added telemetry note and updated readme

introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: What is Agno?
description: "Agno is a python framework for building multi-agent systems with shared memory, knowledge and reasoning."
sidebarTitle: What is Agno?
---

Engineers and researchers use Agno to build:

- **Level 1:** Agents with tools and instructions ([example](/introduction/agents#level-1%3A-agents-with-tools-and-instructions)).
- **Level 2:** Agents with knowledge and storage ([example](/introduction/agents#level-2%3A-agents-with-knowledge-and-storage)).
- **Level 3:** Agents with memory and reasoning ([example](/introduction/agents#level-3%3A-agents-with-memory-and-reasoning)).
- **Level 4:** Agent Teams that can reason and collaborate ([example](/introduction/multi-agent-systems#level-4%3A-agent-teams-that-can-reason-and-collaborate)).
- **Level 5:** Agentic Workflows with state and determinism ([example](/introduction/multi-agent-systems#level-5%3A-agentic-workflows-with-state-and-determinism)).

**Example:** Level 1 Reasoning Agent that uses the YFinance API to answer questions:

```python Reasoning Finance Agent
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.anthropic import Claude
from agno.tools.reasoning import ReasoningTools
from agno.tools.yfinance import YFinanceTools

reasoning_agent = Agent(
    model=Claude(id="claude-sonnet-4-20250514"),
    tools=[
        ReasoningTools(add_instructions=True),
        YFinanceTools(stock_price=True, analyst_recommendations=True, company_info=True, company_news=True),
    ],
    instructions="Use tables to display data.",
    markdown=True,
)
```

<Accordion title="Watch the reasoning finance agent in action">
  <video
    autoPlay
    muted
    controls
    className="w-full aspect-video"
    style={{ borderRadius: "8px" }}
    src="/videos/reasoning_finance_agent.mp4"
  ></video>
</Accordion>

# Getting Started

If you're new to Agno, learn how to build your [first Agent](/introduction/agents), chat with it on the [playground](/introduction/playground) and [monitor](/introduction/monitoring) it on [app.agno.com](https://app.agno.com).

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="Your first Agents"
    icon="user-astronaut"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/introduction/agents"
  >
    Learn how to build Agents with Agno
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Agent Playground"
    icon="comment-dots"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="introduction/playground"
  >
    Chat with your Agents using a beautiful Agent UI
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Agent Monitoring"
    icon="rocket-launch"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="introduction/monitoring"
  >
    Monitor your Agents on [agno.com](https://app.agno.com)
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

After that, dive deeper into the [concepts below](/introduction#dive-deeper) or explore the [examples gallery](/examples) to build real-world applications with Agno.

# Why Agno?

Agno will help you build best-in-class, highly-performant agentic systems, saving you hours of research and boilerplate. Here are some key features that set Agno apart:

- **Model Agnostic**: Agno provides a unified interface to 23+ model providers, no lock-in.
- **Highly performant**: Agents instantiate in **~3μs** and use **~6.5Kib** memory on average.
- **Reasoning is a first class citizen**: Reasoning improves reliability and is a must-have for complex autonomous agents. Agno supports 3 approaches to reasoning: Reasoning Models, `ReasoningTools` or our custom `chain-of-thought` approach.
- **Natively Multi-Modal**: Agno Agents are natively multi-modal, they accept text, image, audio and video as input and generate text, image, audio and video as output.
- **Advanced Multi-Agent Architecture**: Agno provides an industry leading multi-agent architecture (**Agent Teams**) with reasoning, memory, and shared context.
- **Built-in Agentic Search**: Agents can search for information at runtime using 20+ vector databases. Agno provides state-of-the-art Agentic RAG, **fully async and highly performant.**
- **Built-in Memory & Session Storage**: Agents come with built-in `Storage` & `Memory` drivers that give your Agents long-term memory and session storage.
- **Structured Outputs**: Agno Agents can return fully-typed responses using model provided structured outputs or `json_mode`.
- **Pre-built FastAPI Routes**: After building your Agents, serve them using pre-built FastAPI routes. 0 to production in minutes.
- **Monitoring**: Monitor agent sessions and performance in real-time on [agno.com](https://app.agno.com).

## Telemetry

Agno logs which model an agent used so we can prioritize updates to the most popular providers. You can disable this by setting `AGNO_TELEMETRY=false` in your environment.

# Dive deeper

Agno is a battle-tested framework with a state of the art reasoning and multi-agent architecture, read the following guides to learn more:

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card title="Agents" icon="user-astronaut" iconType="duotone" href="/agents">
    Learn how to build lightning fast Agents.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Teams" icon="microchip" iconType="duotone" href="/teams">
    Build autonomous multi-agent teams.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Models" icon="cube" iconType="duotone" href="/models">
    Use any model, any provider, no lock-in.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Tools"
    icon="screwdriver-wrench"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools"
  >
    100s of tools to extend your Agents.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Reasoning"
    icon="brain-circuit"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/reasoning"
  >
    Make Agents "think" and "analyze".
  </Card>
  <Card title="Knowledge" icon="server" iconType="duotone" href="/knowledge">
    Give Agents domain-specific knowledge.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Vector Databases"
    icon="spider-web"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/vectordb"
  >
    Store and search your knowledge base.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Storage" icon="database" iconType="duotone" href="/storage">
    Persist Agent session and state in a database.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Memory"
    icon="lightbulb"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/agents/memory"
  >
    Remember user details and session summaries.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Embeddings"
    icon="network-wired"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/embedder"
  >
    Generate embeddings for your knowledge base.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Workflows"
    icon="diagram-project"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/workflows"
  >
    Deterministic, stateful, multi-agent workflows.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Evals" icon="shield" iconType="duotone" href="/evals">
    Evaluate, monitor and improve your Agents.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
