tools/toolkits/toolkits.mdx, before:

---
title: Toolkit Index
---

A **Toolkit** is a collection of functions that can be added to an Agent. The functions in a Toolkit are designed to work together, share internal state and provide a better development experience.

The following **Toolkits** are available to use

## Search

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="Arxiv"
    icon="book"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/arxiv"
  >
    Tools to read arXiv papers.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="BaiduSearch"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/baidusearch"
  >
    Tools to search the web using Baidu.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="DuckDuckGo"
    icon="duck"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/duckduckgo"
  >
    Tools to search the web using DuckDuckGo.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Exa"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/exa"
  >
    Tools to search the web using Exa.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Google Search"
    icon="google"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/googlesearch"
  >
    Tools to search Google.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="HackerNews"
    icon="newspaper"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/hackernews"
  >
    Tools to read Hacker News articles.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Pubmed"
    icon="file-medical"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/pubmed"
  >
    Tools to search Pubmed.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="SearxNG"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/searxng"
  >
    Tools to search the web using SearxNG.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Serper"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/serper"
  >
    Tools to search, scrape webpages, and more using Serper.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Serpapi"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/serpapi"
  >
    Tools to search Google, YouTube, and more using Serpapi.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Tavily"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/tavily"
  >
    Tools to search the web using Tavily.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Wikipedia"
    icon="book"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/wikipedia"
  >
    Tools to search Wikipedia.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Social

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="Discord"
    icon="comment"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/discord"
  >
    Tools to interact with Discord.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Email"
    icon="envelope"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/email"
  >
    Tools to send emails.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Gmail"
    icon="envelope"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/gmail"
  >
    Tools to interact with Gmail.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Slack"
    icon="slack"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/slack"
  >
    Tools to interact with Slack.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Telegram"
    icon="telegram"
    iconType="brands"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/telegram"
  >
    Tools to interact with Telegram.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Twilio"
    icon="mobile-screen-button"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/twilio"
  >
    Tools to interact with Twilio services.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="WhatsApp"
    icon="whatsapp"
    iconType="brands"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/whatsapp"
  >
    Tools to interact with WhatsApp.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Webex"
    icon="message"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/webex"
  >
    Tools to interact with Cisco Webex.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="X (Twitter)"
    icon="x-twitter"
    iconType="brands"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/x"
  >
    Tools to interact with X.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Zoom"
    icon="video"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/zoom"
  >
    Tools to interact with Zoom.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Web Scraping

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="AgentQL"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/agentql"
  >
    Browse and scrape websites using AgentQL.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="BrowserBase"
    icon="browser"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/browserbase"
  >
    Tools to interact with BrowserBase.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Crawl4AI"
    icon="spider"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/crawl4ai"
  >
    Tools to crawl web data.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Jina Reader"
    icon="robot"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/jina_reader"
  >
    Tools for neural search and AI services using Jina.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Newspaper"
    icon="newspaper"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/newspaper"
  >
    Tools to read news articles.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Newspaper4k"
    icon="newspaper"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/newspaper4k"
  >
    Tools to read articles using Newspaper4k.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Website"
    icon="globe"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/website"
  >
    Tools to scrape websites.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Firecrawl"
    icon="fire"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/firecrawl"
  >
    Tools to crawl the web using Firecrawl.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Spider"
    icon="spider"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/spider"
  >
    Tools to crawl websites.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="BrightData"
    icon="screen-users"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/brightdata"
  >
    Tools to scrape websites using BrightData.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Data

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="CSV"
    icon="file-csv"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/database/csv"
  >
    Tools to work with CSV files.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="DuckDb"
    icon="server"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/database/duckdb"
  >
    Tools to run SQL using DuckDb.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Pandas"
    icon="table"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/database/pandas"
  >
    Tools to manipulate data using Pandas.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Postgres"
    icon="database"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/database/postgres"
  >
    Tools to interact with PostgreSQL databases.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="SQL"
    icon="database"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/database/sql"
  >
    Tools to run SQL queries.
  </Card>

  <Card
    title="Zep"
    icon="memory"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/database/zep"
  >
    Tools to interact with Zep.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Local

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="Calculator"
    icon="calculator"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/local/calculator"
  >
    Tools to perform calculations.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Docker"
    icon="docker"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/local/docker"
  >
    Tools to interact with Docker.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="File"
    icon="file"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/local/file"
  >
    Tools to read and write files.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Python"
    icon="code"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/local/python"
  >
    Tools to write and run Python code.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Shell"
    icon="terminal"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/local/shell"
  >
    Tools to run shell commands.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Sleep"
    icon="bed"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/local/sleep"
  >
    Tools to pause execution for a given number of seconds.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Native Model Toolkit

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="Groq"
    icon="groq"
    iconType="brands"
    href="/tools/toolkits/models/groq"
  >
    Tools to interact with Groq.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Additional Toolkits

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="Airflow"
    icon="wind"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/airflow"
  >
    Tools to manage Airflow DAGs.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Apify"
    icon="gear"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/apify"
  >
    Tools to use Apify Actors.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="AWS Lambda"
    icon="server"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/aws_lambda"
  >
    Tools to run serverless functions using AWS Lambda.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="AWS SES"
    icon="envelope"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/aws_ses"
  >
    Tools to send emails using AWS SES
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="CalCom"
    icon="calendar"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/calcom"
  >
    Tools to interact with the Cal.com API.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Cartesia"
    icon="waveform"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/cartesia"
  >
    Tools for integrating voice AI.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Composio"
    icon="code-branch"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/composio"
  >
    Tools to compose complex workflows.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Confluence"
    icon="file"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/confluence"
  >
    Tools to manage Confluence pages.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Custom API"
    icon="puzzle-piece"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/custom_api"
  >
    Tools to call any custom HTTP API.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Daytona"
    icon="terminal"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/daytona"
  >
    Tools to execute code in secure, remote sandboxes.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Dalle"
    icon="eye"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/dalle"
  >
    Tools to interact with Dalle.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Eleven Labs"
    icon="headphones"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/eleven_labs"
  >
    Tools to generate audio using Eleven Labs.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="E2B"
    icon="server"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/e2b"
  >
    Tools to interact with E2B.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Fal"
    icon="video"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/fal"
  >
    Tools to generate media using Fal.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Financial Datasets"
    icon="dollar-sign"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/financial_datasets"
  >
    Tools to access and analyze financial data.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Giphy"
    icon="image"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/giphy"
  >
    Tools to search for GIFs on Giphy.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="GitHub"
    icon="github"
    iconType="brands"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/github"
  >
    Tools to interact with GitHub.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Google Maps"
    icon="map"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/google_maps"
  >
    Tools to search for places on Google Maps.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Google Calendar"
    icon="calendar"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/googlecalendar"
  >
    Tools to manage Google Calendar events.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Google Sheets"
    icon="google"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/google_sheets"
  >
    Tools to work with Google Sheets.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Jira"
    icon="jira"
    iconType="brands"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/jira"
  >
    Tools to interact with Jira.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Linear"
    icon="list"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/linear"
  >
    Tools to interact with Linear.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Lumalabs"
    icon="lightbulb"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/lumalabs"
  >
    Tools to interact with Lumalabs.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="MLX Transcribe"
    icon="headphones"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/mlx_transcribe"
  >
    Tools to transcribe audio using MLX.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="ModelsLabs"
    icon="video"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/models_labs"
  >
    Tools to generate videos using ModelsLabs.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="OpenBB"
    icon="chart-bar"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/openbb"
  >
    Tools to search for stock data using OpenBB.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Openweather"
    icon="cloud-sun"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/openweather"
  >
    Tools to search for weather data using Openweather.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Replicate"
    icon="robot"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/replicate"
  >
    Tools to interact with Replicate.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Resend"
    icon="paper-plane"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/resend"
  >
    Tools to send emails using Resend.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Todoist"
    icon="list"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/todoist"
  >
    Tools to interact with Todoist.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="YFinance"
    icon="dollar-sign"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/yfinance"
  >
    Tools to search Yahoo Finance.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="YouTube"
    icon="youtube"
    iconType="brands"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/youtube"
  >
    Tools to search YouTube.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Zendesk"
    icon="headphones"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/zendesk"
  >
    Tools to search Zendesk.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

feat: add linkup search tool tutorial (#395)
Co-authored-by: Mustafa Esoofally <coolmusta@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Dirk Brand <51947788+dirkbrnd@users.noreply.github.com>

tools/toolkits/toolkits.mdx, after:

---
title: Toolkit Index
---

A **Toolkit** is a collection of functions that can be added to an Agent. The functions in a Toolkit are designed to work together, share internal state and provide a better development experience.

The following **Toolkits** are available to use

## Search

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="Arxiv"
    icon="book"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/arxiv"
  >
    Tools to read arXiv papers.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="BaiduSearch"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/baidusearch"
  >
    Tools to search the web using Baidu.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="DuckDuckGo"
    icon="duck"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/duckduckgo"
  >
    Tools to search the web using DuckDuckGo.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Exa"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/exa"
  >
    Tools to search the web using Exa.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Google Search"
    icon="google"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/googlesearch"
  >
    Tools to search Google.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="HackerNews"
    icon="newspaper"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/hackernews"
  >
    Tools to read Hacker News articles.
  </Card>
    <Card
    title="Linkup"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/linkup"
  >
    Tools to search the web using Linkup, the world’s best search for AI Apps.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Pubmed"
    icon="file-medical"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/pubmed"
  >
    Tools to search Pubmed.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="SearxNG"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/searxng"
  >
    Tools to search the web using SearxNG.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Serper"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/serper"
  >
    Tools to search, scrape webpages, and more using Serper.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Serpapi"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/serpapi"
  >
    Tools to search Google, YouTube, and more using Serpapi.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Tavily"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/tavily"
  >
    Tools to search the web using Tavily.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Wikipedia"
    icon="book"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/search/wikipedia"
  >
    Tools to search Wikipedia.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Social

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="Discord"
    icon="comment"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/discord"
  >
    Tools to interact with Discord.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Email"
    icon="envelope"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/email"
  >
    Tools to send emails.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Gmail"
    icon="envelope"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/gmail"
  >
    Tools to interact with Gmail.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Slack"
    icon="slack"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/slack"
  >
    Tools to interact with Slack.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Telegram"
    icon="telegram"
    iconType="brands"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/telegram"
  >
    Tools to interact with Telegram.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Twilio"
    icon="mobile-screen-button"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/twilio"
  >
    Tools to interact with Twilio services.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="WhatsApp"
    icon="whatsapp"
    iconType="brands"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/whatsapp"
  >
    Tools to interact with WhatsApp.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Webex"
    icon="message"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/webex"
  >
    Tools to interact with Cisco Webex.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="X (Twitter)"
    icon="x-twitter"
    iconType="brands"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/x"
  >
    Tools to interact with X.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Zoom"
    icon="video"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/social/zoom"
  >
    Tools to interact with Zoom.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Web Scraping

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="AgentQL"
    icon="magnifying-glass"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/agentql"
  >
    Browse and scrape websites using AgentQL.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="BrowserBase"
    icon="browser"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/browserbase"
  >
    Tools to interact with BrowserBase.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Crawl4AI"
    icon="spider"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/crawl4ai"
  >
    Tools to crawl web data.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Jina Reader"
    icon="robot"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/jina_reader"
  >
    Tools for neural search and AI services using Jina.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Newspaper"
    icon="newspaper"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/newspaper"
  >
    Tools to read news articles.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Newspaper4k"
    icon="newspaper"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/newspaper4k"
  >
    Tools to read articles using Newspaper4k.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Website"
    icon="globe"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/website"
  >
    Tools to scrape websites.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Firecrawl"
    icon="fire"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/firecrawl"
  >
    Tools to crawl the web using Firecrawl.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Spider"
    icon="spider"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/spider"
  >
    Tools to crawl websites.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="BrightData"
    icon="screen-users"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/web_scrape/brightdata"
  >
    Tools to scrape websites using BrightData.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Data

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="CSV"
    icon="file-csv"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/database/csv"
  >
    Tools to work with CSV files.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="DuckDb"
    icon="server"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/database/duckdb"
  >
    Tools to run SQL using DuckDb.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Pandas"
    icon="table"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/database/pandas"
  >
    Tools to manipulate data using Pandas.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Postgres"
    icon="database"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/database/postgres"
  >
    Tools to interact with PostgreSQL databases.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="SQL"
    icon="database"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/database/sql"
  >
    Tools to run SQL queries.
  </Card>

  <Card
    title="Zep"
    icon="memory"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/database/zep"
  >
    Tools to interact with Zep.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Local

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="Calculator"
    icon="calculator"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/local/calculator"
  >
    Tools to perform calculations.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Docker"
    icon="docker"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/local/docker"
  >
    Tools to interact with Docker.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="File"
    icon="file"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/local/file"
  >
    Tools to read and write files.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Python"
    icon="code"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/local/python"
  >
    Tools to write and run Python code.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Shell"
    icon="terminal"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/local/shell"
  >
    Tools to run shell commands.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Sleep"
    icon="bed"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/local/sleep"
  >
    Tools to pause execution for a given number of seconds.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Native Model Toolkit

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="Groq"
    icon="groq"
    iconType="brands"
    href="/tools/toolkits/models/groq"
  >
    Tools to interact with Groq.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Additional Toolkits

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="Airflow"
    icon="wind"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/airflow"
  >
    Tools to manage Airflow DAGs.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Apify"
    icon="gear"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/apify"
  >
    Tools to use Apify Actors.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="AWS Lambda"
    icon="server"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/aws_lambda"
  >
    Tools to run serverless functions using AWS Lambda.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="AWS SES"
    icon="envelope"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/aws_ses"
  >
    Tools to send emails using AWS SES
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="CalCom"
    icon="calendar"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/calcom"
  >
    Tools to interact with the Cal.com API.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Cartesia"
    icon="waveform"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/cartesia"
  >
    Tools for integrating voice AI.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Composio"
    icon="code-branch"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/composio"
  >
    Tools to compose complex workflows.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Confluence"
    icon="file"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/confluence"
  >
    Tools to manage Confluence pages.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Custom API"
    icon="puzzle-piece"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/custom_api"
  >
    Tools to call any custom HTTP API.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Daytona"
    icon="terminal"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/daytona"
  >
    Tools to execute code in secure, remote sandboxes.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Dalle"
    icon="eye"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/dalle"
  >
    Tools to interact with Dalle.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Eleven Labs"
    icon="headphones"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/eleven_labs"
  >
    Tools to generate audio using Eleven Labs.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="E2B"
    icon="server"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/e2b"
  >
    Tools to interact with E2B.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Fal"
    icon="video"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/fal"
  >
    Tools to generate media using Fal.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Financial Datasets"
    icon="dollar-sign"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/financial_datasets"
  >
    Tools to access and analyze financial data.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Giphy"
    icon="image"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/giphy"
  >
    Tools to search for GIFs on Giphy.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="GitHub"
    icon="github"
    iconType="brands"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/github"
  >
    Tools to interact with GitHub.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Google Maps"
    icon="map"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/google_maps"
  >
    Tools to search for places on Google Maps.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Google Calendar"
    icon="calendar"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/googlecalendar"
  >
    Tools to manage Google Calendar events.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Google Sheets"
    icon="google"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/google_sheets"
  >
    Tools to work with Google Sheets.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Jira"
    icon="jira"
    iconType="brands"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/jira"
  >
    Tools to interact with Jira.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Linear"
    icon="list"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/linear"
  >
    Tools to interact with Linear.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Lumalabs"
    icon="lightbulb"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/lumalabs"
  >
    Tools to interact with Lumalabs.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="MLX Transcribe"
    icon="headphones"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/mlx_transcribe"
  >
    Tools to transcribe audio using MLX.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="ModelsLabs"
    icon="video"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/models_labs"
  >
    Tools to generate videos using ModelsLabs.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="OpenBB"
    icon="chart-bar"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/openbb"
  >
    Tools to search for stock data using OpenBB.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Openweather"
    icon="cloud-sun"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/openweather"
  >
    Tools to search for weather data using Openweather.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Replicate"
    icon="robot"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/replicate"
  >
    Tools to interact with Replicate.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Resend"
    icon="paper-plane"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/resend"
  >
    Tools to send emails using Resend.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Todoist"
    icon="list"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/todoist"
  >
    Tools to interact with Todoist.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="YFinance"
    icon="dollar-sign"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/yfinance"
  >
    Tools to search Yahoo Finance.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="YouTube"
    icon="youtube"
    iconType="brands"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/youtube"
  >
    Tools to search YouTube.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Zendesk"
    icon="headphones"
    iconType="duotone"
    href="/tools/toolkits/others/zendesk"
  >
    Tools to search Zendesk.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
