_snippets/team-reference.mdx, before:

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
|-----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `members` | `List[Union[Agent, Team]]` | - | List of agents or teams that make up this team |
| `mode` | `Literal["route", "coordinate", "collaborate"]` | `"coordinate"` | Team operating mode |
| `model` | `Optional[Model]` | `None` | Model to use for the team |
| `name` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | Name of the team |
| `team_id` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | Team UUID (autogenerated if not set) |
| `user_id` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | ID of the user interacting with this team |
| `session_id` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | Session UUID (autogenerated if not set) |
| `session_name` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | Session name |
| `session_state` | `Optional[Dict[str, Any]]` | `None` | Session state (stored in the database to persist across runs) |
| `add_state_in_messages` | `bool` | `False` | If True, add the session state variables in the user and system messages |
| `description` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | A description of the team that is added to the start of the system message |
| `instructions` | `Optional[Union[str, List[str], Callable]]` | `None` | List of instructions for the team |
| `expected_output` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | Provide the expected output from the team |
| `success_criteria` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | Define the success criteria for the team |
| `markdown` | `bool` | `False` | If markdown=true, add instructions to format the output using markdown |
| `add_datetime_to_instructions` | `bool` | `False` | If True, add the current datetime to the instructions to give the agent a sense of time |
| `context` | `Optional[Dict[str, Any]]` | `None` | User provided context |
| `add_context` | `bool` | `False` | If True, add the context to the user prompt |
| `enable_agentic_context` | `bool` | `False` | If True, enable the team agent to update the team context and automatically send the team context to the members |
| `share_member_interactions` | `bool` | `False` | If True, send all previous member interactions to members |
| `read_team_history` | `bool` | `False` | If True, read the team history |
| `show_tool_calls` | `bool` | `False` | Show tool calls in team response |
| `response_model` | `Optional[Type[BaseModel]]` | `None` | Response model for the team response |
| `use_json_mode` | `bool` | `False` | If `response_model` is set, sets the response "mode" of the model, i.e. if the model should explicitly respond with a JSON object instead of a Pydantic model |
| `parse_response` | `bool` | `True` | If True, parse the response |
| `memory` | `Optional[TeamMemory]` | `None` | Memory for the team |
| `enable_team_history` | `bool` | `False` | If True, enable the team history |
| `num_of_interactions_from_history` | `int` | `3` | Number of interactions from history |
| `storage` | `Optional[Storage]` | `None` | Storage for the team |
| `extra_data` | `Optional[Dict[str, Any]]` | `None` | Extra data stored with this team |
| `debug_mode` | `bool` | `False` | Enable debug logs |
| `show_members_responses` | `bool` | `False` | Enable member logs - Sets the debug_mode for team and members |
| `monitoring` | `bool` | `False` | Log team information to agno.com for monitoring |
| `telemetry` | `bool` | `True` | Log minimal telemetry for analytics |

Commit message:

Make updates to the team reference

_snippets/team-reference.mdx, after:

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
|-----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `members` | `List[Union[Agent, Team]]` | - | List of agents or teams that make up this team |
| `mode` | `Literal["route", "coordinate", "collaborate"]` | `"coordinate"` | Team operating mode |
| `model` | `Optional[Model]` | `None` | Model to use for the team |
| `name` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | Name of the team |
| `team_id` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | Team UUID (autogenerated if not set) |
| `user_id` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | ID of the user interacting with this team |
| `session_id` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | Session UUID (autogenerated if not set) |
| `session_name` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | Session name |
| `session_state` | `Optional[Dict[str, Any]]` | `None` | Session state (stored in the database to persist across runs) |
| `add_state_in_messages` | `bool` | `False` | If True, add the session state variables in the user and system messages |
| `description` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | A description of the team that is added to the start of the system message |
| `instructions` | `Optional[Union[str, List[str], Callable]]` | `None` | List of instructions for the team |
| `expected_output` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | Provide the expected output from the team |
| `additional_context` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | Additional context added to the end of the system message |
| `success_criteria` | `Optional[str]` | `None` | Define the success criteria for the team |
| `markdown` | `bool` | `False` | If markdown=true, add instructions to format the output using markdown |
| `add_datetime_to_instructions` | `bool` | `False` | If True, add the current datetime to the instructions to give the agent a sense of time |
| `knowledge` | `Optional[AgentKnowledge]` | `None` | Add a knowledge base to the team |
| `retriever` | `Optional[Callable[..., Optional[List[Dict]]]]` | `None` | Function to get references to add to the user_message |
| `references_format` | `Literal["json", "yaml"]` | `"json"` | Format of the references |
| `context` | `Optional[Dict[str, Any]]` | `None` | User provided context |
| `add_context` | `bool` | `False` | If True, add the context to the user prompt |
| `enable_agentic_context` | `bool` | `False` | If True, enable the team agent to update the team context and automatically send the team context to the members |
| `share_member_interactions` | `bool` | `False` | If True, send all previous member interactions to members |
| `read_team_history` | `bool` | `False` | If True, read the team history |
| `search_knowledge` | `bool` | `True` | Add a tool that allows the Model to search the knowledge base |
| `get_member_information_tool` | `bool` | `True` | Add a tool that allows the Model to get information about the members of the team |
| `show_tool_calls` | `bool` | `False` | Show tool calls in team response |
| `response_model` | `Optional[Type[BaseModel]]` | `None` | Response model for the team response |
| `use_json_mode` | `bool` | `False` | If `response_model` is set, sets the response "mode" of the model, i.e. if the model should explicitly respond with a JSON object instead of a Pydantic model |
| `parse_response` | `bool` | `True` | If True, parse the response |
| `memory` | `Optional[TeamMemory]` | `None` | Memory for the team |
| `enable_team_history` | `bool` | `False` | If True, enable the team history |
| `num_of_interactions_from_history` | `int` | `3` | Number of interactions from history |
| `storage` | `Optional[Storage]` | `None` | Storage for the team |
| `extra_data` | `Optional[Dict[str, Any]]` | `None` | Extra data stored with this team |
| `debug_mode` | `bool` | `False` | Enable debug logs |
| `show_members_responses` | `bool` | `False` | Enable member logs - Sets the debug_mode for team and members |
| `monitoring` | `bool` | `False` | Log team information to agno.com for monitoring |
| `telemetry` | `bool` | `True` | Log minimal telemetry for analytics |
