examples/evals/reliability/reliability_with_teams.mdx, before:

---
title: Reliability with Teams
description: Learn how to assert an Agno Team is making the expected tool calls.
---

## Code

```python
from typing import Optional

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.eval.reliability import ReliabilityEval, ReliabilityResult
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.run.team import TeamRunResponse
from agno.team.team import Team
from agno.tools.yfinance import YFinanceTools

team_member = Agent(
    name="Stock Searcher",
    model=OpenAIChat("gpt-4o"),
    role="Searches the web for information on a stock.",
    tools=[YFinanceTools(stock_price=True)],
)

team = Team(
    name="Stock Research Team",
    model=OpenAIChat("gpt-4o"),
    members=[team_member],
    markdown=True,
    show_members_responses=True,
)

expected_tool_calls = [
    "transfer_task_to_member",  # Tool call used to transfer a task to a Team member
    "get_current_stock_price",  # Tool call used to get the current stock price of a stock
]


def evaluate_team_reliability():
    response: TeamRunResponse = team.run("What is the current stock price of NVDA?")
    evaluation = ReliabilityEval(
        team_response=response,
        expected_tool_calls=expected_tool_calls,
    )
    result: Optional[ReliabilityResult] = evaluation.run(print_results=True)
    result.assert_passed()


if __name__ == "__main__":
    evaluate_team_reliability()
```

Commit message:

replaced all occurences of yfinance with ddgs

examples/evals/reliability/reliability_with_teams.mdx, after:

---
title: Reliability with Teams
description: Learn how to assert an Agno Team is making the expected tool calls.
---

## Code

```python
from typing import Optional

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.eval.reliability import ReliabilityEval, ReliabilityResult
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.run.team import TeamRunResponse
from agno.team.team import Team
from agno.tools.duckduckgo import DuckDuckGoTools

team_member = Agent(
    name="Research Analyst",
    model=OpenAIChat("gpt-4o"),
    role="Searches the web for information on research topics.",
    tools=[DuckDuckGoTools(search=True, news=True)],
)

team = Team(
    name="Research Analysis Team",
    model=OpenAIChat("gpt-4o"),
    members=[team_member],
    markdown=True,
    show_members_responses=True,
)

expected_tool_calls = [
    "transfer_task_to_member",  # Tool call used to transfer a task to a Team member
    "duckduckgo_search",  # Tool call used to search for information
]


def evaluate_team_reliability():
    response: TeamRunResponse = team.run("What are the latest developments in artificial intelligence?")
    evaluation = ReliabilityEval(
        team_response=response,
        expected_tool_calls=expected_tool_calls,
    )
    result: Optional[ReliabilityResult] = evaluation.run(print_results=True)
    result.assert_passed()


if __name__ == "__main__":
    evaluate_team_reliability()
```
