tools/mcp/mcp.mdx, before:

---
title: Model Context Protocol (MCP) Introduction
sidebarTitle: Introduction
---

The [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io) enables Agents to interact with external systems through a standardized interface.
You can connect your Agents to any MCP server, using Agno's MCP integration.

## Usage

<Steps>
    <Step title="Find the MCP server you want to use">
    You can use any working MCP server. To see some examples, you can check [this GitHub repository](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers), by the maintainers of the MCP themselves.
    </Step>

    <Step title="Initialize the MCP integration">
    Intialize the `MCPTools` class as a context manager. The recommended way to define the MCP server, is to use the `command` or `url` parameters. With `command`, you can pass the command used to run the MCP server you want. With `url`, you can pass the URL of the running MCP server you want to use.


    For example, to use the "[mcp-server-git](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/git)" server, you can do the following:


    ```python
    from agno.tools.mcp import MCPTools

    async with MCPTools(command=f"uvx mcp-server-git") as mcp_tools:
        ...
    ```
    </Step>

    <Step title="Provide the MCPTools to the Agent">
    When initializing the Agent, pass the `MCPTools` class in the `tools` parameter.


    The agent will now be ready to use the MCP server:


    ```python
    from agno.agent import Agent
    from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
    from agno.tools.mcp import MCPTools

    async with MCPTools(command=f"uvx mcp-server-git") as mcp_tools:
        # Setup and run the agent
        agent = Agent(model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"), tools=[mcp_tools])
        await agent.aprint_response("What is the license for this project?", stream=True)
    ```
    </Step>

</Steps>


### Basic example: Filesystem Agent

Here's a filesystem agent that uses the [Filesystem MCP server](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/filesystem) to explore and analyze files:

```python filesystem_agent.py
import asyncio
from pathlib import Path
from textwrap import dedent

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools.mcp import MCPTools
from mcp import StdioServerParameters


async def run_agent(message: str) -> None:
    """Run the filesystem agent with the given message."""

    file_path = str(Path(__file__).parent.parent.parent.parent)

    # MCP server to access the filesystem (via `npx`)
    async with MCPTools(f"npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem {file_path}") as mcp_tools:
        agent = Agent(
            model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
            tools=[mcp_tools],
            instructions=dedent("""\
                You are a filesystem assistant. Help users explore files and directories.

                - Navigate the filesystem to answer questions
                - Use the list_allowed_directories tool to find directories that you can access
                - Provide clear context about files you examine
                - Use headings to organize your responses
                - Be concise and focus on relevant information\
            """),
            markdown=True,
            show_tool_calls=True,
        )

        # Run the agent
        await agent.aprint_response(message, stream=True)


# Example usage
if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Basic example - exploring project license
    asyncio.run(run_agent("What is the license for this project?"))
```


## Using MCP in Agno Playground

You can also run MCP servers in the Agno Playground, which provides a web interface for interacting with your agents. Here's an example of a GitHub agent running in the Playground:

```python github_playground.py
import asyncio
from os import getenv
from textwrap import dedent

import nest_asyncio
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.playground import Playground, serve_playground_app
from agno.storage.agent.sqlite import SqliteAgentStorage
from agno.tools.mcp import MCPTools

# Allow nested event loops
nest_asyncio.apply()

agent_storage_file: str = "tmp/agents.db"


async def run_server() -> None:
    """Run the GitHub agent server."""
    github_token = getenv("GITHUB_TOKEN") or getenv("GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN")
    if not github_token:
        raise ValueError("GITHUB_TOKEN environment variable is required")

    # Create a client session to connect to the MCP server
    async with MCPTools("npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-github") as mcp_tools:
        agent = Agent(
            name="MCP GitHub Agent",
            tools=[mcp_tools],
            instructions=dedent("""\
                You are a GitHub assistant. Help users explore repositories and their activity.

                - Use headings to organize your responses
                - Be concise and focus on relevant information\
            """),
            model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
            storage=SqliteAgentStorage(
                table_name="basic_agent",
                db_file=agent_storage_file,
                auto_upgrade_schema=True,
            ),
            add_history_to_messages=True,
            num_history_responses=3,
            add_datetime_to_instructions=True,
            markdown=True,
        )

        playground = Playground(agents=[agent])
        app = playground.get_app()

        # Serve the app while keeping the MCPTools context manager alive
        serve_playground_app(app)


if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(run_server())
```


## Best Practices

1. **Error Handling**: Always include proper error handling for MCP server connections and operations.

2. **Resource Cleanup**: Use `MCPTools` or `MultiMCPTools` as an async context manager to ensure proper cleanup of resources:
```python
async with MCPTools(command) as mcp_tools:
    # Your agent code here
```

3. **Clear Instructions**: Provide clear and specific instructions to your agent:

```python
instructions = """
You are a filesystem assistant. Help users explore files and directories.
- Navigate the filesystem to answer questions
- Use the list_allowed_directories tool to find accessible directories
- Provide clear context about files you examine
- Be concise and focus on relevant information
"""
```

## More Information

- Find examples of Agents that use MCP [here](https://docs.agno.com/examples/concepts/tools/mcp/airbnb).
- Find a collection of MCP servers [here](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers).
- Read the [MCP documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) to learn more about the Model Context Protocol.
- Checkout the Agno [Cookbook](https://github.com/agno-agi/agno/tree/main/cookbook/tools/mcp) for more examples of Agents that use MCP.

Commit message:

Update MCP title and add description to enhance clarity on its usage with Agno.

tools/mcp/mcp.mdx, after:

---
title: Model Context Protocol (MCP)
sidebarTitle: Introduction
description: Learn how to use MCP with Agno to enable your agents to interact with external systems through a standardized interface.
---

The [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io) enables Agents to interact with external systems through a standardized interface.
You can connect your Agents to any MCP server, using Agno's MCP integration.

## Usage

<Steps>
    <Step title="Find the MCP server you want to use">
    You can use any working MCP server. To see some examples, you can check [this GitHub repository](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers), by the maintainers of the MCP themselves.
    </Step>

    <Step title="Initialize the MCP integration">
    Intialize the `MCPTools` class as a context manager. The recommended way to define the MCP server, is to use the `command` or `url` parameters. With `command`, you can pass the command used to run the MCP server you want. With `url`, you can pass the URL of the running MCP server you want to use.


    For example, to use the "[mcp-server-git](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/git)" server, you can do the following:


    ```python
    from agno.tools.mcp import MCPTools

    async with MCPTools(command=f"uvx mcp-server-git") as mcp_tools:
        ...
    ```
    </Step>

    <Step title="Provide the MCPTools to the Agent">
    When initializing the Agent, pass the `MCPTools` class in the `tools` parameter.


    The agent will now be ready to use the MCP server:


    ```python
    from agno.agent import Agent
    from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
    from agno.tools.mcp import MCPTools

    async with MCPTools(command=f"uvx mcp-server-git") as mcp_tools:
        # Setup and run the agent
        agent = Agent(model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"), tools=[mcp_tools])
        await agent.aprint_response("What is the license for this project?", stream=True)
    ```
    </Step>

</Steps>


### Basic example: Filesystem Agent

Here's a filesystem agent that uses the [Filesystem MCP server](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/filesystem) to explore and analyze files:

```python filesystem_agent.py
import asyncio
from pathlib import Path
from textwrap import dedent

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools.mcp import MCPTools
from mcp import StdioServerParameters


async def run_agent(message: str) -> None:
    """Run the filesystem agent with the given message."""

    file_path = str(Path(__file__).parent.parent.parent.parent)

    # MCP server to access the filesystem (via `npx`)
    async with MCPTools(f"npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem {file_path}") as mcp_tools:
        agent = Agent(
            model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
            tools=[mcp_tools],
            instructions=dedent("""\
                You are a filesystem assistant. Help users explore files and directories.

                - Navigate the filesystem to answer questions
                - Use the list_allowed_directories tool to find directories that you can access
                - Provide clear context about files you examine
                - Use headings to organize your responses
                - Be concise and focus on relevant information\
            """),
            markdown=True,
            show_tool_calls=True,
        )

        # Run the agent
        await agent.aprint_response(message, stream=True)


# Example usage
if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Basic example - exploring project license
    asyncio.run(run_agent("What is the license for this project?"))
```


## Using MCP in Agno Playground

You can also run MCP servers in the Agno Playground, which provides a web interface for interacting with your agents. Here's an example of a GitHub agent running in the Playground:

```python github_playground.py
import asyncio
from os import getenv
from textwrap import dedent

import nest_asyncio
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.playground import Playground, serve_playground_app
from agno.storage.agent.sqlite import SqliteAgentStorage
from agno.tools.mcp import MCPTools

# Allow nested event loops
nest_asyncio.apply()

agent_storage_file: str = "tmp/agents.db"


async def run_server() -> None:
    """Run the GitHub agent server."""
    github_token = getenv("GITHUB_TOKEN") or getenv("GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN")
    if not github_token:
        raise ValueError("GITHUB_TOKEN environment variable is required")

    # Create a client session to connect to the MCP server
    async with MCPTools("npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/server-github") as mcp_tools:
        agent = Agent(
            name="MCP GitHub Agent",
            tools=[mcp_tools],
            instructions=dedent("""\
                You are a GitHub assistant. Help users explore repositories and their activity.

                - Use headings to organize your responses
                - Be concise and focus on relevant information\
            """),
            model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
            storage=SqliteAgentStorage(
                table_name="basic_agent",
                db_file=agent_storage_file,
                auto_upgrade_schema=True,
            ),
            add_history_to_messages=True,
            num_history_responses=3,
            add_datetime_to_instructions=True,
            markdown=True,
        )

        playground = Playground(agents=[agent])
        app = playground.get_app()

        # Serve the app while keeping the MCPTools context manager alive
        serve_playground_app(app)


if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(run_server())
```


## Best Practices

1. **Error Handling**: Always include proper error handling for MCP server connections and operations.

2. **Resource Cleanup**: Use `MCPTools` or `MultiMCPTools` as an async context manager to ensure proper cleanup of resources:
```python
async with MCPTools(command) as mcp_tools:
    # Your agent code here
```

3. **Clear Instructions**: Provide clear and specific instructions to your agent:

```python
instructions = """
You are a filesystem assistant. Help users explore files and directories.
- Navigate the filesystem to answer questions
- Use the list_allowed_directories tool to find accessible directories
- Provide clear context about files you examine
- Be concise and focus on relevant information
"""
```

## More Information

- Find examples of Agents that use MCP [here](https://docs.agno.com/examples/concepts/tools/mcp/airbnb).
- Find a collection of MCP servers [here](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers).
- Read the [MCP documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) to learn more about the Model Context Protocol.
- Checkout the Agno [Cookbook](https://github.com/agno-agi/agno/tree/main/cookbook/tools/mcp) for more examples of Agents that use MCP.
