examples/applications/ag-ui/agent_with_tools.mdx, before:

---
title: Agent with Tools
description: Expose your Agno Agent with tools as a AG-UI compatible app
---

## Code

```python cookbook/apps/agui/agent_with_tool.py
from agno.agent.agent import Agent
from agno.app.agui.app import AGUIApp
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools.yfinance import YFinanceTools

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[
        YFinanceTools(
            stock_price=True, analyst_recommendations=True, stock_fundamentals=True
        )
    ],
    description="You are an investment analyst that researches stock prices, analyst recommendations, and stock fundamentals.",
    instructions="Format your response using markdown and use tables to display data where possible.",
)

agui_app = AGUIApp(
    agent=agent,
    name="Investment Analyst",
    app_id="investment_analyst",
    description="An investment analyst that researches stock prices, analyst recommendations, and stock fundamentals.",
)

app = agui_app.get_app()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    agui_app.serve(app="agent_with_tool:app", port=8000, reload=True)
```

You can see instructions on how to setup an AG-UI compatible front-end to use this with in the [AG-UI App](/applications/ag-ui/introduction) page.

Commit message:

replaced all occurences of yfinance with ddgs

examples/applications/ag-ui/agent_with_tools.mdx, after:

---
title: Agent with Tools
description: Expose your Agno Agent with tools as a AG-UI compatible app
---

## Code

```python cookbook/apps/agui/agent_with_tool.py
from agno.agent.agent import Agent
from agno.app.agui.app import AGUIApp
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools.duckduckgo import DuckDuckGoTools

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[
        DuckDuckGoTools(
            search=True, news=True
        )
    ],
    description="You are a research analyst that investigates topics, trends, and provides comprehensive information.",
    instructions="Format your response using markdown and use tables to display data where possible.",
)

agui_app = AGUIApp(
    agent=agent,
    name="Investment Analyst",
    app_id="investment_analyst",
    description="An investment analyst that researches stock prices, analyst recommendations, and stock fundamentals.",
)

app = agui_app.get_app()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    agui_app.serve(app="agent_with_tool:app", port=8000, reload=True)
```

You can see instructions on how to setup an AG-UI compatible front-end to use this with in the [AG-UI App](/applications/ag-ui/introduction) page.
