observability/langwatch.mdx, before:

---
title: LangWatch
description: Integrate Agno with LangWatch to send traces and gain insights into your agent's performance.
---

## Prerequisites

1. **Install Dependencies**

   ```bash
   pip install agno openai langwatch openinference-instrumentation-agno
   ```

2. **Create a Langwatch Account**

   - Sign up or log in to your [LangWatch dashboard](https://app.langwatch.ai/).
   - Obtain your API key from your project settings.

3. **Set Environment Variables**

   ```bash
   export LANGWATCH_API_KEY=your-langwatch-api-key
   export OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-key
   ```


## Sending Traces to LangWatch

This example demonstrates how to instrument your Agno agent and send traces to LangWatch

```python
import langwatch
import os

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools.yfinance import YFinanceTools
from openinference.instrumentation.agno import AgnoInstrumentor

# Initialize LangWatch and instrument Agno
langwatch.setup(
    instrumentors=[AgnoInstrumentor()]
)

agent = Agent(
    name="Stock Price Agent",
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
    tools=[YFinanceTools()],
    instructions="You are a stock price agent. Answer questions in the style of a stock analyst.",
    debug_mode=True,
)

agent.print_response("What is the current price of Tesla?")
```

## Notes

- **No OpenTelemetry Setup Needed**: You do **not** need to set any OpenTelemetry environment variables or configure exporters manually—`langwatch.setup()` handles everything.
- **Troubleshooting**: If you see no traces in LangWatch, ensure your `LANGWATCH_API_KEY` is set and that the instrumentor is included in `langwatch.setup()`.
- For advanced configuration (custom attributes, endpoint, etc.), see the [LangWatch Python integration guide](https://docs.langwatch.ai/integration/python/integrations/agno).

By following these steps, you can effectively integrate Agno with LangWatch,  enabling comprehensive observability and monitoring of your AI agents.

Commit message:

[chore] Remove yfinance tool and doc (#448)
- remove Yfinance docs and cookbooks

observability/langwatch.mdx, after:

---
title: LangWatch
description: Integrate Agno with LangWatch to send traces and gain insights into your agent's performance.
---

## Prerequisites

1. **Install Dependencies**

   ```bash
   pip install agno openai langwatch openinference-instrumentation-agno
   ```

2. **Create a Langwatch Account**

   - Sign up or log in to your [LangWatch dashboard](https://app.langwatch.ai/).
   - Obtain your API key from your project settings.

3. **Set Environment Variables**

   ```bash
   export LANGWATCH_API_KEY=your-langwatch-api-key
   export OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-key
   ```


## Sending Traces to LangWatch

This example demonstrates how to instrument your Agno agent and send traces to LangWatch

```python
import langwatch
import os

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools.duckduckgo import DuckDuckGoTools
from openinference.instrumentation.agno import AgnoInstrumentor

# Initialize LangWatch and instrument Agno
langwatch.setup(
    instrumentors=[AgnoInstrumentor()]
)

agent = Agent(
    name="Research Agent",
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
    tools=[DuckDuckGoTools(search=True, news=True)],
    instructions="You are a research agent. Answer questions in the style of a professional researcher.",
    debug_mode=True,
)

agent.print_response("What is the latest news about artificial intelligence?")
```

## Notes

- **No OpenTelemetry Setup Needed**: You do **not** need to set any OpenTelemetry environment variables or configure exporters manually—`langwatch.setup()` handles everything.
- **Troubleshooting**: If you see no traces in LangWatch, ensure your `LANGWATCH_API_KEY` is set and that the instrumentor is included in `langwatch.setup()`.
- For advanced configuration (custom attributes, endpoint, etc.), see the [LangWatch Python integration guide](https://docs.langwatch.ai/integration/python/integrations/agno).

By following these steps, you can effectively integrate Agno with LangWatch,  enabling comprehensive observability and monitoring of your AI agents.
