storage/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction
---

Agents come with built-in memory but it only lasts while the session is active. To continue conversations across sessions, we store Agent sessions in a database like PostgreSQL.

Storage is a necessary component when building user facing AI products as any production application will require users to be able to "continue" their conversation with the Agent.

The general syntax for adding storage to an Agent looks like:

```python storage.py
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools.duckduckgo import DuckDuckGoTools
from agno.storage.agent.postgres import PostgresAgentStorage

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    storage=PostgresAgentStorage(table_name="agent_sessions", db_url="postgresql+psycopg://ai:ai@localhost:5532/ai"),
    tools=[DuckDuckGoTools()],
    show_tool_calls=True,
    add_history_to_messages=True,
)
agent.print_response("How many people live in Canada?")
agent.print_response("What is their national anthem called?")
agent.print_response("Which country are we speaking about?")
```

The following databases are supported as a storage backend:

- [PostgreSQL](/storage/postgres)
- [Sqlite](/storage/sqlite)
- [SingleStore](/storage/singlestore)
- [DynamoDB](/storage/dynamodb)
- [MongoDB](/storage/mongodb)

Commit message:

add docs for agent and workflows merged storage

storage/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction
---

Agents come with built-in memory but it only lasts while the session is active. To continue conversations across sessions, we store Agent sessions in a database like PostgreSQL.

Storage is a necessary component when building user facing AI products as any production application will require users to be able to "continue" their conversation with the Agent.

<Note>
Storage works with both agents and workflows.
The storage system in Agno is versatile and can be used with both individual agents and complex workflows. This allows for persistent conversations and cached results across sessions.

Learn more about using storage with [workflows](/workflows/) to build powerful multi-agent systems with state management.
</Note>

The general syntax for adding storage to an Agent looks like:

```python storage.py
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools.duckduckgo import DuckDuckGoTools
from agno.storage.postgres import PostgresStorage

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    storage=PostgresStorage(table_name="agent_sessions", db_url="postgresql+psycopg://ai:ai@localhost:5532/ai"),
    tools=[DuckDuckGoTools()],
    show_tool_calls=True,
    add_history_to_messages=True,
)
agent.print_response("How many people live in Canada?")
agent.print_response("What is their national anthem called?")
agent.print_response("Which country are we speaking about?")
```

The following databases are supported as a storage backend:

- [PostgreSQL](/storage/postgres)
- [Sqlite](/storage/sqlite)
- [SingleStore](/storage/singlestore)
- [DynamoDB](/storage/dynamodb)
- [MongoDB](/storage/mongodb)
