agent-ui/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: A beautiful UI for your Agents
sidebarTitle: Getting Started
---

<Frame>
  <img
    height="200"
    src="/images/agent-ui.png"
    style={{ borderRadius: '8px' }}
  />
</Frame>

Agno provides a beautiful UI for interacting with your agents, completely open source, free to use and build on top of. It's a simple interface that allows you to chat with your agents, view their memory, knowledge, and more.

<Note>
No data is sent to [agno.com](https://app.agno.com), all agent data is stored locally in your sqlite database.
</Note>

The Open Source Agent UI is built with Next.js and TypeScript. After the success of the [Agent Playground](/introduction/playground), the community asked for a self-hosted alternative and we delivered!

# Get Started with Agent UI

To clone the Agent UI, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npx create-agent-ui@latest
```

Enter `y` to create a new project, install dependencies, then run the agent-ui using:

```bash
cd agent-ui && npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the Agent UI, but remember to connect to your local agents.

<Frame>
  <img
    height="200"
    src="/images/agent-ui-homepage.png"
    style={{ borderRadius: '8px' }}
  />
</Frame>

<br />

<Accordion title="Clone the repository manually" icon="github">

You can also clone the repository manually

```bash
git clone https://github.com/agno-agi/agent-ui.git
```

And run the agent-ui using

```bash
cd agent-ui && pnpm install && pnpm dev
```

</Accordion>

## Connect to Local Agents

The Agent UI needs to connect to a playground server, which you can run locally or on any cloud provider.

Let's start with a local playground server. Create a file `playground.py`

```python playground.py
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.playground import Playground, serve_playground_app
from agno.storage.sqlite import SqliteStorage
from agno.tools.duckduckgo import DuckDuckGoTools
from agno.tools.yfinance import YFinanceTools

agent_storage: str = "tmp/agents.db"

web_agent = Agent(
    name="Web Agent",
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[DuckDuckGoTools()],
    instructions=["Always include sources"],
    # Store the agent sessions in a sqlite database
    storage=SqliteStorage(table_name="web_agent", db_file=agent_storage),
    # Adds the current date and time to the instructions
    add_datetime_to_instructions=True,
    # Adds the history of the conversation to the messages
    add_history_to_messages=True,
    # Number of history responses to add to the messages
    num_history_responses=5,
    # Adds markdown formatting to the messages
    markdown=True,
)

finance_agent = Agent(
    name="Finance Agent",
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[YFinanceTools(stock_price=True, analyst_recommendations=True, company_info=True, company_news=True)],
    instructions=["Always use tables to display data"],
    storage=SqliteStorage(table_name="finance_agent", db_file=agent_storage),
    add_datetime_to_instructions=True,
    add_history_to_messages=True,
    num_history_responses=5,
    markdown=True,
)

app = Playground(agents=[web_agent, finance_agent]).get_app()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    serve_playground_app("playground:app", reload=True)
```

In another terminal, run the playground server:

<Steps>
  <Step title="Setup your virtual environment">

    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Mac
    python3 -m venv .venv
    source .venv/bin/activate
    ```

    ```bash Windows
    python3 -m venv aienv
    aienv/scripts/activate
    ```
    </CodeGroup>

  </Step>
  <Step title="Install dependencies">

    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Mac
    pip install -U openai duckduckgo-search yfinance sqlalchemy 'fastapi[standard]' agno
    ```

    ```bash Windows
    pip install -U openai duckduckgo-search yfinance sqlalchemy 'fastapi[standard]' agno
    ```
    </CodeGroup>

  </Step>
  <Step title="Export your OpenAI key">

    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Mac
    export OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-***
    ```

    ```bash Windows
    setx OPENAI_API_KEY sk-***
    ```
    </CodeGroup>

  </Step>
  <Step title="Run the Playground">

    ```shell
    python playground.py
    ```

  </Step>
</Steps>

<Tip>Make sure the `serve_playground_app()` points to the file containing your `Playground` app.</Tip>

## View the playground

- Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the Agent UI
- Select the `localhost:7777` endpoint and start chatting with your agents!

<video
  autoPlay
  muted
  controls
  className="w-full aspect-video"
  src="/videos/agent-ui-demo.mp4"
></video>

Commit message:

chore: update introduction with a description for the UI

agent-ui/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: A beautiful UI for your Agents
sidebarTitle: Getting Started
description: A beautiful, open-source interface for interacting with AI agents 
---

<Frame>
  <img
    height="200"
    src="/images/agent-ui.png"
    style={{ borderRadius: '8px' }}
  />
</Frame>

Agno provides a beautiful UI for interacting with your agents, completely open source, free to use and build on top of. It's a simple interface that allows you to chat with your agents, view their memory, knowledge, and more.

<Note>
No data is sent to [agno.com](https://app.agno.com), all agent data is stored locally in your sqlite database.
</Note>

The Open Source Agent UI is built with Next.js and TypeScript. After the success of the [Agent Playground](/introduction/playground), the community asked for a self-hosted alternative and we delivered!

# Get Started with Agent UI

To clone the Agent UI, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npx create-agent-ui@latest
```

Enter `y` to create a new project, install dependencies, then run the agent-ui using:

```bash
cd agent-ui && npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the Agent UI, but remember to connect to your local agents.

<Frame>
  <img
    height="200"
    src="/images/agent-ui-homepage.png"
    style={{ borderRadius: '8px' }}
  />
</Frame>

<br />

<Accordion title="Clone the repository manually" icon="github">

You can also clone the repository manually

```bash
git clone https://github.com/agno-agi/agent-ui.git
```

And run the agent-ui using

```bash
cd agent-ui && pnpm install && pnpm dev
```

</Accordion>

## Connect to Local Agents

The Agent UI needs to connect to a playground server, which you can run locally or on any cloud provider.

Let's start with a local playground server. Create a file `playground.py`

```python playground.py
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.playground import Playground, serve_playground_app
from agno.storage.sqlite import SqliteStorage
from agno.tools.duckduckgo import DuckDuckGoTools
from agno.tools.yfinance import YFinanceTools

agent_storage: str = "tmp/agents.db"

web_agent = Agent(
    name="Web Agent",
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[DuckDuckGoTools()],
    instructions=["Always include sources"],
    # Store the agent sessions in a sqlite database
    storage=SqliteStorage(table_name="web_agent", db_file=agent_storage),
    # Adds the current date and time to the instructions
    add_datetime_to_instructions=True,
    # Adds the history of the conversation to the messages
    add_history_to_messages=True,
    # Number of history responses to add to the messages
    num_history_responses=5,
    # Adds markdown formatting to the messages
    markdown=True,
)

finance_agent = Agent(
    name="Finance Agent",
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[YFinanceTools(stock_price=True, analyst_recommendations=True, company_info=True, company_news=True)],
    instructions=["Always use tables to display data"],
    storage=SqliteStorage(table_name="finance_agent", db_file=agent_storage),
    add_datetime_to_instructions=True,
    add_history_to_messages=True,
    num_history_responses=5,
    markdown=True,
)

app = Playground(agents=[web_agent, finance_agent]).get_app()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    serve_playground_app("playground:app", reload=True)
```

In another terminal, run the playground server:

<Steps>
  <Step title="Setup your virtual environment">

    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Mac
    python3 -m venv .venv
    source .venv/bin/activate
    ```

    ```bash Windows
    python3 -m venv aienv
    aienv/scripts/activate
    ```
    </CodeGroup>

  </Step>
  <Step title="Install dependencies">

    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Mac
    pip install -U openai duckduckgo-search yfinance sqlalchemy 'fastapi[standard]' agno
    ```

    ```bash Windows
    pip install -U openai duckduckgo-search yfinance sqlalchemy 'fastapi[standard]' agno
    ```
    </CodeGroup>

  </Step>
  <Step title="Export your OpenAI key">

    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Mac
    export OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-***
    ```

    ```bash Windows
    setx OPENAI_API_KEY sk-***
    ```
    </CodeGroup>

  </Step>
  <Step title="Run the Playground">

    ```shell
    python playground.py
    ```

  </Step>
</Steps>

<Tip>Make sure the `serve_playground_app()` points to the file containing your `Playground` app.</Tip>

## View the playground

- Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the Agent UI
- Select the `localhost:7777` endpoint and start chatting with your agents!

<video
  autoPlay
  muted
  controls
  className="w-full aspect-video"
  src="/videos/agent-ui-demo.mp4"
></video>
