vectordb/pinecone.mdx, before:

---
title: Pinecone Agent Knowledge
sidebarTitle: Pinecone
---

## Setup

Follow the instructions in the [Pinecone Setup Guide](https://docs.pinecone.io/guides/get-started/quickstart) to get started quickly with Pinecone.

## Example

```python agent_with_knowledge.py
import os
import typer
from typing import Optional
from rich.prompt import Prompt

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.knowledge.pdf_url import PDFUrlKnowledgeBase
from agno.vectordb.pineconedb import PineconeDb

api_key = os.getenv("PINECONE_API_KEY")
index_name = "thai-recipe-hybrid-search"

vector_db = PineconeDb(
    name=index_name,
    dimension=1536,
    metric="cosine",
    spec={"serverless": {"cloud": "aws", "region": "us-east-1"}},
    api_key=api_key,
    use_hybrid_search=True,
    hybrid_alpha=0.5,
)

knowledge_base = PDFUrlKnowledgeBase(
    urls=["https://agno-public.s3.amazonaws.com/recipes/ThaiRecipes.pdf"],
    vector_db=vector_db,
)

def pinecone_agent(user: str = "user"):
    run_id: Optional[str] = None

    agent = Agent(
        run_id=run_id,
        user_id=user,
        knowledge=knowledge_base,
        show_tool_calls=True,
        debug_mode=True,
    )

    if run_id is None:
        run_id = agent.run_id
        print(f"Started Run: {run_id}\n")
    else:
        print(f"Continuing Run: {run_id}\n")

    while True:
        message = Prompt.ask(f"[bold] :sunglasses: {user} [/bold]")
        if message in ("exit", "bye"):
            break
        agent.print_response(message)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Comment out after first run
    knowledge_base.load(recreate=True, upsert=True)

    typer.run(pinecone_agent)
```

## PineconeDb Params

<Snippet file="vectordb_pineconedb_params.mdx" />

## Developer Resources

- View [Cookbook](https://github.com/agno-agi/agno/blob/main/cookbook/agent_concepts/knowledge/vector_dbs/pinecone_db.py)

Commit message:

added pinecone version compatibility warning

vectordb/pinecone.mdx, after:

---
title: Pinecone Agent Knowledge
sidebarTitle: Pinecone
---

## Setup

Follow the instructions in the [Pinecone Setup Guide](https://docs.pinecone.io/guides/get-started/quickstart) to get started quickly with Pinecone.

```shell
pip install pinecone
```

<Info>
  We do not yet support Pinecone v6. We are actively working to achieve
  compatibility. In the meantime, we recommend using **Pinecone v5.4.2** for the
  best experience.
</Info>

## Example

```python agent_with_knowledge.py
import os
import typer
from typing import Optional
from rich.prompt import Prompt

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.knowledge.pdf_url import PDFUrlKnowledgeBase
from agno.vectordb.pineconedb import PineconeDb

api_key = os.getenv("PINECONE_API_KEY")
index_name = "thai-recipe-hybrid-search"

vector_db = PineconeDb(
    name=index_name,
    dimension=1536,
    metric="cosine",
    spec={"serverless": {"cloud": "aws", "region": "us-east-1"}},
    api_key=api_key,
    use_hybrid_search=True,
    hybrid_alpha=0.5,
)

knowledge_base = PDFUrlKnowledgeBase(
    urls=["https://agno-public.s3.amazonaws.com/recipes/ThaiRecipes.pdf"],
    vector_db=vector_db,
)

def pinecone_agent(user: str = "user"):
    run_id: Optional[str] = None

    agent = Agent(
        run_id=run_id,
        user_id=user,
        knowledge=knowledge_base,
        show_tool_calls=True,
        debug_mode=True,
    )

    if run_id is None:
        run_id = agent.run_id
        print(f"Started Run: {run_id}\n")
    else:
        print(f"Continuing Run: {run_id}\n")

    while True:
        message = Prompt.ask(f"[bold] :sunglasses: {user} [/bold]")
        if message in ("exit", "bye"):
            break
        agent.print_response(message)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Comment out after first run
    knowledge_base.load(recreate=True, upsert=True)

    typer.run(pinecone_agent)
```

## PineconeDb Params

<Snippet file="vectordb_pineconedb_params.mdx" />

## Developer Resources

- View [Cookbook](https://github.com/agno-agi/agno/blob/main/cookbook/agent_concepts/knowledge/vector_dbs/pinecone_db.py)
