agents/memory.mdx, before:

---
title: Memory
---

Agno provides 3 types of memory for Agents:

1. **Chat History:** The message history of the session. Agno will store the sessions in a database for you, and retrieve them when you resume a session.
2. **User Memories:** Notes and insights about the user, this helps the model personalize the response to the user.
3. **Summaries:** A summary of the conversation, which is added to the prompt when chat history gets too long.

Before we dive in, let's understand the terminology:

- **Session:** Each conversation with an Agent is called a **session**. Sessions are identified by a `session_id`.
- **Run:** Every interaction (i.e. chat) within a session is called a **run**. Runs are identified by a `run_id`.
- **Messages:** are the individual messages sent to and received from the model. They have a `role` (`system`, `user` or `assistant`) and `content`.

<Tip>
**Sessions** are equivalent to **threads** in the OpenAI Assistant API.
</Tip>

## Built-in Memory

Every Agent comes with built-in memory that can be used to access the historical **runs** and **messages**. Access it using `agent.memory`

<Expandable title="AgentMemory">
    <ResponseField name="runs" type="list[AgentRun]">
        The list of runs between the user and agent. Each run contains the input message and output response.
    </ResponseField>

    <ResponseField name="messages" type="list[Message]">
        The full list of messages sent to the model, including system prompt, tool calls etc.
    </ResponseField>
</Expandable>

### Example

```python agent_memory.py
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from rich.pretty import pprint

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    # Set add_history_to_messages=true to add the previous chat history to the messages sent to the Model.
    add_history_to_messages=True,
    # Number of historical responses to add to the messages.
    num_history_responses=3,
    description="You are a helpful assistant that always responds in a polite, upbeat and positive manner.",
)

# -*- Create a run
agent.print_response("Share a 2 sentence horror story", stream=True)
# -*- Print the messages in the memory
pprint([m.model_dump(include={"role", "content"}) for m in agent.memory.messages])

# -*- Ask a follow up question that continues the conversation
agent.print_response("What was my first message?", stream=True)
# -*- Print the messages in the memory
pprint([m.model_dump(include={"role", "content"}) for m in agent.memory.messages])
```

## Persistent Memory

The built-in memory only lasts while the session is active. To persist memory across sessions, we can store Agent sessions in a database using `AgentStorage`.

Storage is a necessary component when building user facing AI products as any production application will require users to be able to "continue" their conversation with the Agent.

Let's test this out, create a file `persistent_memory.py` with the following code:

```python persistent_memory.py
import json

from rich.console import Console
from rich.panel import Panel
from rich.json import JSON

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.storage.agent.sqlite import SqlAgentStorage

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    # Store agent sessions in a database
    storage=SqlAgentStorage(table_name="agent_sessions", db_file="tmp/agent_storage.db"),
    # Set add_history_to_messages=true to add the previous chat history to the messages sent to the Model.
    add_history_to_messages=True,
    # Number of historical responses to add to the messages.
    num_history_responses=3,
    # The session_id is used to identify the session in the database
    # You can resume any session by providing a session_id
    # session_id="xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx",
    # Description creates a system prompt for the agent
    description="You are a helpful assistant that always responds in a polite, upbeat and positive manner.",
)

console = Console()

def print_chat_history(agent):
    # -*- Print history
    console.print(
        Panel(
            JSON(json.dumps([m.model_dump(include={"role", "content"}) for m in agent.memory.messages]), indent=4),
            title=f"Chat History for session_id: {agent.session_id}",
            expand=True,
        )
    )


# -*- Create a run
agent.print_response("Share a 2 sentence horror story", stream=True)
# -*- Print the chat history
print_chat_history(agent)

# -*- Ask a follow up question that continues the conversation
agent.print_response("What was my first message?", stream=True)
# -*- Print the chat history
print_chat_history(agent)
```

### Run the agent

Install dependencies and run the agent:

```shell
pip install openai sqlalchemy agno

python persistent_memory.py
```

You can view the agent sessions in the sqlite database and continue any conversation by providing the same `session_id`.

Read more in the [storage](/agents/storage) section.

## User preferences and conversation summaries

Along with storing chat history and run messages, `AgentMemory` can be extended to automatically classify and store user preferences and conversation summaries.

To do this, add a `db` to `AgentMemory` and set `create_user_memories=True` and `create_session_summary=True`

User memories are stored in the `AgentMemory` whereas session summaries are stored in the `AgentStorage` table with the rest of the session information.

<Note>
  User preferences and conversation summaries are currently only compatible with
  `OpenAI` and `OpenAILike` models. While Persistent Memory is compatible with
  all model providers.
</Note>

## Example

```python personalized_memories_and_summaries.py
from rich.pretty import pprint

from agno.agent import Agent, AgentMemory
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.memory.db.postgres import PgMemoryDb
from agno.storage.agent.postgres import PgAgentStorage

db_url = "postgresql+psycopg://ai:ai@localhost:5532/ai"
agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    # Store the memories and summary in a database
    memory=AgentMemory(
        db=PgMemoryDb(table_name="agent_memory", db_url=db_url), create_user_memories=True, create_session_summary=True
    ),
    # Store agent sessions in a database
    storage=PgAgentStorage(table_name="personalized_agent_sessions", db_url=db_url),
    # Show debug logs so you can see the memory being created
    # debug_mode=True,
)

# -*- Share personal information
agent.print_response("My name is john billings?", stream=True)
# -*- Print memories
pprint(agent.memory.memories)
# -*- Print summary
pprint(agent.memory.summary)

# -*- Share personal information
agent.print_response("I live in nyc?", stream=True)
# -*- Print memories
pprint(agent.memory.memories)
# -*- Print summary
pprint(agent.memory.summary)

# -*- Share personal information
agent.print_response("I'm going to a concert tomorrow?", stream=True)
# -*- Print memories
pprint(agent.memory.memories)
# -*- Print summary
pprint(agent.memory.summary)

# Ask about the conversation
agent.print_response("What have we been talking about, do you know my name?", stream=True)
```

## Attributes

| Parameter                          | Type          | Default         | Description                                                                                                     |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------- | --------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `memory`                           | `AgentMemory` | `AgentMemory()` | Agent's memory object used for storing and retrieving information.                                              |
| `add_history_to_messages`          | `bool`        | `False`         | If true, adds the chat history to the messages sent to the Model. Also known as `add_chat_history_to_messages`. |
| `num_history_responses`            | `int`         | `3`             | Number of historical responses to add to the messages.                                                          |
| `create_user_memories`             | `bool`        | `False`         | If true, create and store personalized memories for the user.                                                   |
| `update_user_memories_after_run`   | `bool`        | `True`          | If true, update memories for the user after each run.                                                           |
| `create_session_summary`           | `bool`        | `False`         | If true, create and store session summaries.                                                                    |
| `update_session_summary_after_run` | `bool`        | `True`          | If true, update session summaries after each run.                                                               |

Commit message:

Add more specific instructions for knowledge and memory

agents/memory.mdx, after:

---
title: Memory
---

Agno provides 3 types of memory for Agents:

1. **Chat History:** The message history of the session. Agno will store the sessions in a database for you, and retrieve them when you resume a session.
2. **User Memories:** Notes and insights about the user, this helps the model personalize the response to the user.
3. **Summaries:** A summary of the conversation, which is added to the prompt when chat history gets too long.

Before we dive in, let's understand the terminology:

- **Session:** Each conversation with an Agent is called a **session**. Sessions are identified by a `session_id`.
- **Run:** Every interaction (i.e. chat) within a session is called a **run**. Runs are identified by a `run_id`.
- **Messages:** are the individual messages sent to and received from the model. They have a `role` (`system`, `user` or `assistant`) and `content`.

<Tip>
**Sessions** are equivalent to **threads** in the OpenAI Assistant API.
</Tip>

## Built-in Memory

Every Agent comes with built-in memory that can be used to access the historical **runs** and **messages**. Access it using `agent.memory`

<Expandable title="AgentMemory">
    <ResponseField name="runs" type="list[AgentRun]">
        The list of runs between the user and agent. Each run contains the input message and output response.
    </ResponseField>

    <ResponseField name="messages" type="list[Message]">
        The full list of messages sent to the model, including system prompt, tool calls etc.
    </ResponseField>
</Expandable>

You can give your agent access to memory in the following ways:

- You can set `add_history_to_messages=True` and `num_history_responses=5` to add the previous 5 messages automatically to every message sent to the agent.
- You can set `read_chat_history=True` to provide a `get_chat_history()` tool to your agent allowing it to read any message in the entire chat history.
- You can set `read_tool_call_history=True` to provide a `get_tool_call_history()` tool to your agent allowing it to read tool calls in reverse chronological order.

### Example

```python agent_memory.py
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from rich.pretty import pprint

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    # Set add_history_to_messages=true to add the previous chat history to the messages sent to the Model.
    add_history_to_messages=True,
    # Number of historical responses to add to the messages.
    num_history_responses=3,
    description="You are a helpful assistant that always responds in a polite, upbeat and positive manner.",
)

# -*- Create a run
agent.print_response("Share a 2 sentence horror story", stream=True)
# -*- Print the messages in the memory
pprint([m.model_dump(include={"role", "content"}) for m in agent.memory.messages])

# -*- Ask a follow up question that continues the conversation
agent.print_response("What was my first message?", stream=True)
# -*- Print the messages in the memory
pprint([m.model_dump(include={"role", "content"}) for m in agent.memory.messages])
```

## Persistent Memory

The built-in memory only lasts while the session is active. To persist memory across sessions, we can store Agent sessions in a database using `AgentStorage`.

Storage is a necessary component when building user facing AI products as any production application will require users to be able to "continue" their conversation with the Agent.

Let's test this out, create a file `persistent_memory.py` with the following code:

```python persistent_memory.py
import json

from rich.console import Console
from rich.panel import Panel
from rich.json import JSON

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.storage.agent.sqlite import SqlAgentStorage

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    # Store agent sessions in a database
    storage=SqlAgentStorage(table_name="agent_sessions", db_file="tmp/agent_storage.db"),
    # Set add_history_to_messages=true to add the previous chat history to the messages sent to the Model.
    add_history_to_messages=True,
    # Number of historical responses to add to the messages.
    num_history_responses=3,
    # The session_id is used to identify the session in the database
    # You can resume any session by providing a session_id
    # session_id="xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx",
    # Description creates a system prompt for the agent
    description="You are a helpful assistant that always responds in a polite, upbeat and positive manner.",
)

console = Console()

def print_chat_history(agent):
    # -*- Print history
    console.print(
        Panel(
            JSON(json.dumps([m.model_dump(include={"role", "content"}) for m in agent.memory.messages]), indent=4),
            title=f"Chat History for session_id: {agent.session_id}",
            expand=True,
        )
    )


# -*- Create a run
agent.print_response("Share a 2 sentence horror story", stream=True)
# -*- Print the chat history
print_chat_history(agent)

# -*- Ask a follow up question that continues the conversation
agent.print_response("What was my first message?", stream=True)
# -*- Print the chat history
print_chat_history(agent)
```

### Run the agent

Install dependencies and run the agent:

```shell
pip install openai sqlalchemy agno

python persistent_memory.py
```

You can view the agent sessions in the sqlite database and continue any conversation by providing the same `session_id`.

Read more in the [storage](/agents/storage) section.

## User preferences and conversation summaries

Along with storing chat history and run messages, `AgentMemory` can be extended to automatically classify and store user preferences and conversation summaries.

To do this, add a `db` to `AgentMemory` and set `create_user_memories=True` and `create_session_summary=True`

User memories are stored in the `AgentMemory` whereas session summaries are stored in the `AgentStorage` table with the rest of the session information.

<Note>
  User preferences and conversation summaries are currently only compatible with
  `OpenAI` and `OpenAILike` models. While Persistent Memory is compatible with
  all model providers.
</Note>

## Example

```python personalized_memories_and_summaries.py
from rich.pretty import pprint

from agno.agent import Agent, AgentMemory
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.memory.db.postgres import PgMemoryDb
from agno.storage.agent.postgres import PgAgentStorage

db_url = "postgresql+psycopg://ai:ai@localhost:5532/ai"
agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    # Store the memories and summary in a database
    memory=AgentMemory(
        db=PgMemoryDb(table_name="agent_memory", db_url=db_url), create_user_memories=True, create_session_summary=True
    ),
    # Store agent sessions in a database
    storage=PgAgentStorage(table_name="personalized_agent_sessions", db_url=db_url),
    # Show debug logs so you can see the memory being created
    # debug_mode=True,
)

# -*- Share personal information
agent.print_response("My name is john billings?", stream=True)
# -*- Print memories
pprint(agent.memory.memories)
# -*- Print summary
pprint(agent.memory.summary)

# -*- Share personal information
agent.print_response("I live in nyc?", stream=True)
# -*- Print memories
pprint(agent.memory.memories)
# -*- Print summary
pprint(agent.memory.summary)

# -*- Share personal information
agent.print_response("I'm going to a concert tomorrow?", stream=True)
# -*- Print memories
pprint(agent.memory.memories)
# -*- Print summary
pprint(agent.memory.summary)

# Ask about the conversation
agent.print_response("What have we been talking about, do you know my name?", stream=True)
```

## Attributes

| Parameter                          | Type          | Default         | Description                                                                                                     |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------- | --------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `memory`                           | `AgentMemory` | `AgentMemory()` | Agent's memory object used for storing and retrieving information.                                              |
| `add_history_to_messages`          | `bool`        | `False`         | If true, adds the chat history to the messages sent to the Model. Also known as `add_chat_history_to_messages`. |
| `num_history_responses`            | `int`         | `3`             | Number of historical responses to add to the messages.                                                          |
| `create_user_memories`             | `bool`        | `False`         | If true, create and store personalized memories for the user.                                                   |
| `update_user_memories_after_run`   | `bool`        | `True`          | If true, update memories for the user after each run.                                                           |
| `create_session_summary`           | `bool`        | `False`         | If true, create and store session summaries.                                                                    |
| `update_session_summary_after_run` | `bool`        | `True`          | If true, update session summaries after each run.                                                               |
