agents/user-control-flow.mdx, before:

---
title: User Control Flows
description: Learn how to control the flow of an agent's execution in Agno. This is also called "Human in the Loop".
---

User control flows in Agno enable you to implement "Human in the Loop" patterns, where human oversight and input are required during agent execution. This is crucial for:

- Validating sensitive operations
- Reviewing tool calls before execution
- Gathering user input for decision-making
- Managing external tool execution

## Types of User Control Flows

Agno supports four main types of user control flows:

1. **User Confirmation**: Require explicit user approval before executing tool calls
2. **User Input**: Gather specific information from users during execution
3. **Dynamic User Input**: Have the agent collect user input as it needs it
4. **External Tool Execution**: Execute tools outside of the agent's control


## Pausing Agent Execution

User control flows interrupt the agent's execution and require human oversight. The run can then be continued by calling the `continue_run` method.

For example:

```python
agent.run("Perform sensitive operation")

if agent.is_paused:
    # The agent will pause while human input is provided
    # ... perform other tasks

    # The user can then continue the run
    response = agent.continue_run()
    # or response = await agent.acontinue_run()
```

The `continue_run` method continues with the state of the agent at the time of the pause.  You can also pass the `run_response` of a specific run to the `continue_run` method, or the `run_id`.


## User Confirmation

User confirmation allows you to pause execution and require explicit user approval before proceeding with tool calls. This is useful for:

- Sensitive operations
- API calls that modify data
- Actions with significant consequences

The following example shows how to implement user confirmation.

```python
from agno.tools import tool
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat

@tool(requires_confirmation=True)
def sensitive_operation(data: str) -> str:
    """Perform a sensitive operation that requires confirmation."""
    # Implementation here
    return "Operation completed"

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[sensitive_operation],
)

# Run the agent
agent.run("Perform sensitive operation")

# Handle confirmation
if agent.is_paused:
    for tool in agent.run_response.tools_requiring_confirmation:
        # Get user confirmation
        print(f"Tool {tool.tool_name}({tool.tool_args}) requires confirmation")
        confirmed = input(f"Confirm? (y/n): ").lower() == "y"
        tool.confirmed = confirmed

  # Continue execution
  response = agent.continue_run()
```

You can also specify which tools in a toolkit require confirmation.

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools import tool
from agno.tools.yfinance import YFinanceTools
from agno.utils import pprint

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
    tools=[YFinanceTools(requires_confirmation_tools=["get_current_stock_price"])],
)

agent.run("What is the current stock price of Apple?")
if agent.is_paused:
    for tool in agent.run_response.tools_requiring_confirmation:
        print(f"Tool {tool.tool_name}({tool.tool_args}) requires confirmation")
        confirmed = input(f"Confirm? (y/n): ").lower() == "y"

        if message == "n":
            tool.confirmed = False
        else:
            # We update the tools in place
            tool.confirmed = True

    run_response = agent.continue_run()
    pprint.pprint_run_response(run_response)
```

## User Input

User input flows allow you to gather specific information from users during execution. This is useful for:

- Collecting required parameters
- Getting user preferences
- Gathering missing information

In the example below, we require all the input for the `send_email` tool from the user.

```python
from typing import List
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools.function import UserInputField

# We still provide a docstring to the tool; This will be used to populate the `user_input_schema`
@tool(requires_user_input=True)
def send_email(to: str, subject: str, body: str) -> dict:
    """Send an email to the user.

    Args:
        to (str): The address to send the email to.
        subject (str): The subject of the email.
        body (str): The body of the email.
    """
    # Implementation here
    return f"Email sent to {to} with subject {subject} and body {body}"

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[send_email],
)

agent.run("Send an email please")
if agent.is_paused:
    for tool in agent.run_response.tools_requiring_user_input:
        input_schema: List[UserInputField] = tool.user_input_schema

        for field in input_schema:
            # Display field information to the user
            print(f"\nField: {field.name} ({field.field_type.__name__}) -> {field.description}")

            # Get user input
            user_value = input(f"Please enter a value for {field.name}: ")

            # Update the field value
            field.value = user_value

    run_response = (
        agent.continue_run()
    )
```

The `RunResponse` object has a list of tools and in the case of `requires_user_input`, the tools that require input will have `user_input_schema` populated.
This is a list of `UserInputField` objects.

```python
class UserInputField:
    name: str  # The name of the field
    field_type: Type  # The required type of the field
    description: Optional[str] = None  # The description of the field
    value: Optional[Any] = None  # The value of the field. Populated by the agent or the user.
```

You can also specify which fields should be filled by the user while the agent will provide the rest of the fields.

```python

# You can either specify the user_input_fields leave empty for all fields to be provided by the user
@tool(requires_user_input=True, user_input_fields=["to_address"])
def send_email(subject: str, body: str, to_address: str) -> str:
    """
    Send an email.

    Args:
        subject (str): The subject of the email.
        body (str): The body of the email.
        to_address (str): The address to send the email to.
    """
    return f"Sent email to {to_address} with subject {subject} and body {body}"

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[send_email],
)

agent.run("Send an email with the subject 'Hello' and the body 'Hello, world!'")
if agent.is_paused:
    for tool in agent.run_response.tools_requiring_user_input:
        input_schema: List[UserInputField] = tool.user_input_schema

        for field in input_schema:
            # Display field information to the user
            print(f"\nField: {field.name} ({field.field_type.__name__}) -> {field.description}")

            # Get user input (if the value is not set, it means the user needs to provide the value)
            if field.value is None:
                user_value = input(f"Please enter a value for {field.name}: ")
                field.value = user_value
            else:
                print(f"Value provided by the agent: {field.value}")

    run_response = (
        agent.continue_run()
    )
```

## Dynamic User Input

This pattern provides the agent with tools to indicate when it needs user input. It's ideal for:

- Cases where it is unknown how the user will interact with the agent
- When you want a form-like interaction with the user

In the following example, we use a specialized tool to allow the agent to collect user feedback when it needs it.

```python
from typing import Any, Dict

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools import tool
from agno.tools.toolkit import Toolkit
from agno.tools.user_control_flow import UserControlFlowTools
from agno.utils import pprint

# Example toolkit for handling emails
class EmailTools(Toolkit):
    def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
        super().__init__(
            name="EmailTools", tools=[self.send_email, self.get_emails], *args, **kwargs
        )

    def send_email(self, subject: str, body: str, to_address: str) -> str:
        """Send an email to the given address with the given subject and body.

        Args:
            subject (str): The subject of the email.
            body (str): The body of the email.
            to_address (str): The address to send the email to.
        """
        return f"Sent email to {to_address} with subject {subject} and body {body}"

    def get_emails(self, date_from: str, date_to: str) -> str:
        """Get all emails between the given dates.

        Args:
            date_from (str): The start date.
            date_to (str): The end date.
        """
        return [
            {
                "subject": "Hello",
                "body": "Hello, world!",
                "to_address": "test@test.com",
                "date": date_from,
            },
            {
                "subject": "Random other email",
                "body": "This is a random other email",
                "to_address": "john@doe.com",
                "date": date_to,
            },
        ]


agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
    tools=[EmailTools(), UserControlFlowTools()],
    markdown=True,
    debug_mode=True,
)

run_response = agent.run("Send an email with the body 'How is it going in Tokyo?'")

# We use a while loop to continue the running until the agent is satisfied with the user input
while run_response.is_paused:
    for tool in run_response.tools_requiring_user_input:
        input_schema: List[UserInputField] = tool.user_input_schema

        for field in input_schema:
            # Display field information to the user
            print(f"\nField: {field.name} ({field.field_type.__name__}) -> {field.description}")

            # Get user input (if the value is not set, it means the user needs to provide the value)
            if field.value is None:
                user_value = input(f"Please enter a value for {field.name}: ")
                field.value = user_value
            else:
                print(f"Value provided by the agent: {field.value}")

    run_response = agent.continue_run(run_response=run_response)

    # If the agent is not paused for input, we are done
    if not run_response.is_paused:
        pprint.pprint_run_response(run_response)
        break
```

## External Tool Execution

External tool execution allows you to execute tools outside of the agent's control. This is useful for:

- External service calls
- Database operations

```python
import subprocess

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools import tool
from agno.utils import pprint


# We have to create a tool with the correct name, arguments and docstring for the agent to know what to call.
@tool(external_execution=True)
def execute_shell_command(command: str) -> str:
    """Execute a shell command.

    Args:
        command (str): The shell command to execute

    Returns:
        str: The output of the shell command
    """
    return subprocess.check_output(command, shell=True).decode("utf-8")


agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
    tools=[execute_shell_command],
    markdown=True,
)

run_response = agent.run("What files do I have in my current directory?")
if run_response.is_paused:
    for tool in run_response.tools_awaiting_external_execution:
        if tool.tool_name == execute_shell_command.name:
            print(f"Executing {tool.tool_name} with args {tool.tool_args} externally")

            # We execute the tool ourselves. You can execute any function or process here and use the tool_args as input.
            result = execute_shell_command.entrypoint(**tool.tool_args)
            # We have to set the result on the tool execution object so that the agent can continue
            tool.result = result

    run_response = agent.continue_run()
    pprint.pprint_run_response(run_response)
```

## Best Practices

1. **Sanitise user input**: Always validate and sanitize user input to prevent security vulnerabilities.
2. **Error Handling**: Always implement proper error handling for user input and external calls
3. **Input Validation**: Validate user input before processing

## Developer Resources

- View more [Examples](/examples/concepts/user-control-flows)
- View [Cookbook](https://github.com/agno-agi/agno/tree/main/cookbook/agent_concepts/user_control_flows)

Commit message:

feat: update hitl streaming update  (#411)
Co-authored-by: Dirk Brand <51947788+dirkbrnd@users.noreply.github.com>

agents/user-control-flow.mdx, after:

---
title: User Control Flows
description: Learn how to control the flow of an agent's execution in Agno. This is also called "Human in the Loop".
---

User control flows in Agno enable you to implement "Human in the Loop" patterns, where human oversight and input are required during agent execution. This is crucial for:

- Validating sensitive operations
- Reviewing tool calls before execution
- Gathering user input for decision-making
- Managing external tool execution

## Types of User Control Flows

Agno supports four main types of user control flows:

1. **User Confirmation**: Require explicit user approval before executing tool calls
2. **User Input**: Gather specific information from users during execution
3. **Dynamic User Input**: Have the agent collect user input as it needs it
4. **External Tool Execution**: Execute tools outside of the agent's control


## Pausing Agent Execution

User control flows interrupt the agent's execution and require human oversight. The run can then be continued by calling the `continue_run` method.

For example:

```python
agent.run("Perform sensitive operation")

if agent.is_paused:
    # The agent will pause while human input is provided
    # ... perform other tasks

    # The user can then continue the run
    response = agent.continue_run()
    # or response = await agent.acontinue_run()
```

The `continue_run` method continues with the state of the agent at the time of the pause.  You can also pass the `run_response` of a specific run to the `continue_run` method, or the `run_id`.


## User Confirmation

User confirmation allows you to pause execution and require explicit user approval before proceeding with tool calls. This is useful for:

- Sensitive operations
- API calls that modify data
- Actions with significant consequences

The following example shows how to implement user confirmation.

```python
from agno.tools import tool
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat

@tool(requires_confirmation=True)
def sensitive_operation(data: str) -> str:
    """Perform a sensitive operation that requires confirmation."""
    # Implementation here
    return "Operation completed"

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[sensitive_operation],
)

# Run the agent
agent.run("Perform sensitive operation")

# Handle confirmation
if agent.is_paused:
    for tool in agent.run_response.tools_requiring_confirmation:
        # Get user confirmation
        print(f"Tool {tool.tool_name}({tool.tool_args}) requires confirmation")
        confirmed = input(f"Confirm? (y/n): ").lower() == "y"
        tool.confirmed = confirmed

  # Continue execution
  response = agent.continue_run()
```

You can also specify which tools in a toolkit require confirmation.

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools import tool
from agno.tools.yfinance import YFinanceTools
from agno.utils import pprint

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
    tools=[YFinanceTools(requires_confirmation_tools=["get_current_stock_price"])],
)

agent.run("What is the current stock price of Apple?")
if agent.is_paused:
    for tool in agent.run_response.tools_requiring_confirmation:
        print(f"Tool {tool.tool_name}({tool.tool_args}) requires confirmation")
        confirmed = input(f"Confirm? (y/n): ").lower() == "y"

        if message == "n":
            tool.confirmed = False
        else:
            # We update the tools in place
            tool.confirmed = True

    run_response = agent.continue_run()
    pprint.pprint_run_response(run_response)
```

## User Input

User input flows allow you to gather specific information from users during execution. This is useful for:

- Collecting required parameters
- Getting user preferences
- Gathering missing information

In the example below, we require all the input for the `send_email` tool from the user.

```python
from typing import List
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools.function import UserInputField

# We still provide a docstring to the tool; This will be used to populate the `user_input_schema`
@tool(requires_user_input=True)
def send_email(to: str, subject: str, body: str) -> dict:
    """Send an email to the user.

    Args:
        to (str): The address to send the email to.
        subject (str): The subject of the email.
        body (str): The body of the email.
    """
    # Implementation here
    return f"Email sent to {to} with subject {subject} and body {body}"

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[send_email],
)

agent.run("Send an email please")
if agent.is_paused:
    for tool in agent.run_response.tools_requiring_user_input:
        input_schema: List[UserInputField] = tool.user_input_schema

        for field in input_schema:
            # Display field information to the user
            print(f"\nField: {field.name} ({field.field_type.__name__}) -> {field.description}")

            # Get user input
            user_value = input(f"Please enter a value for {field.name}: ")

            # Update the field value
            field.value = user_value

    run_response = (
        agent.continue_run()
    )
```

The `RunResponse` object has a list of tools and in the case of `requires_user_input`, the tools that require input will have `user_input_schema` populated.
This is a list of `UserInputField` objects.

```python
class UserInputField:
    name: str  # The name of the field
    field_type: Type  # The required type of the field
    description: Optional[str] = None  # The description of the field
    value: Optional[Any] = None  # The value of the field. Populated by the agent or the user.
```

You can also specify which fields should be filled by the user while the agent will provide the rest of the fields.

```python

# You can either specify the user_input_fields leave empty for all fields to be provided by the user
@tool(requires_user_input=True, user_input_fields=["to_address"])
def send_email(subject: str, body: str, to_address: str) -> str:
    """
    Send an email.

    Args:
        subject (str): The subject of the email.
        body (str): The body of the email.
        to_address (str): The address to send the email to.
    """
    return f"Sent email to {to_address} with subject {subject} and body {body}"

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[send_email],
)

agent.run("Send an email with the subject 'Hello' and the body 'Hello, world!'")
if agent.is_paused:
    for tool in agent.run_response.tools_requiring_user_input:
        input_schema: List[UserInputField] = tool.user_input_schema

        for field in input_schema:
            # Display field information to the user
            print(f"\nField: {field.name} ({field.field_type.__name__}) -> {field.description}")

            # Get user input (if the value is not set, it means the user needs to provide the value)
            if field.value is None:
                user_value = input(f"Please enter a value for {field.name}: ")
                field.value = user_value
            else:
                print(f"Value provided by the agent: {field.value}")

    run_response = (
        agent.continue_run()
    )
```

## Dynamic User Input

This pattern provides the agent with tools to indicate when it needs user input. It's ideal for:

- Cases where it is unknown how the user will interact with the agent
- When you want a form-like interaction with the user

In the following example, we use a specialized tool to allow the agent to collect user feedback when it needs it.

```python
from typing import Any, Dict

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools import tool
from agno.tools.toolkit import Toolkit
from agno.tools.user_control_flow import UserControlFlowTools
from agno.utils import pprint

# Example toolkit for handling emails
class EmailTools(Toolkit):
    def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
        super().__init__(
            name="EmailTools", tools=[self.send_email, self.get_emails], *args, **kwargs
        )

    def send_email(self, subject: str, body: str, to_address: str) -> str:
        """Send an email to the given address with the given subject and body.

        Args:
            subject (str): The subject of the email.
            body (str): The body of the email.
            to_address (str): The address to send the email to.
        """
        return f"Sent email to {to_address} with subject {subject} and body {body}"

    def get_emails(self, date_from: str, date_to: str) -> str:
        """Get all emails between the given dates.

        Args:
            date_from (str): The start date.
            date_to (str): The end date.
        """
        return [
            {
                "subject": "Hello",
                "body": "Hello, world!",
                "to_address": "test@test.com",
                "date": date_from,
            },
            {
                "subject": "Random other email",
                "body": "This is a random other email",
                "to_address": "john@doe.com",
                "date": date_to,
            },
        ]


agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
    tools=[EmailTools(), UserControlFlowTools()],
    markdown=True,
    debug_mode=True,
)

run_response = agent.run("Send an email with the body 'How is it going in Tokyo?'")

# We use a while loop to continue the running until the agent is satisfied with the user input
while run_response.is_paused:
    for tool in run_response.tools_requiring_user_input:
        input_schema: List[UserInputField] = tool.user_input_schema

        for field in input_schema:
            # Display field information to the user
            print(f"\nField: {field.name} ({field.field_type.__name__}) -> {field.description}")

            # Get user input (if the value is not set, it means the user needs to provide the value)
            if field.value is None:
                user_value = input(f"Please enter a value for {field.name}: ")
                field.value = user_value
            else:
                print(f"Value provided by the agent: {field.value}")

    run_response = agent.continue_run(run_response=run_response)

    # If the agent is not paused for input, we are done
    if not run_response.is_paused:
        pprint.pprint_run_response(run_response)
        break
```

## External Tool Execution

External tool execution allows you to execute tools outside of the agent's control. This is useful for:

- External service calls
- Database operations

```python
import subprocess

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools import tool
from agno.utils import pprint


# We have to create a tool with the correct name, arguments and docstring for the agent to know what to call.
@tool(external_execution=True)
def execute_shell_command(command: str) -> str:
    """Execute a shell command.

    Args:
        command (str): The shell command to execute

    Returns:
        str: The output of the shell command
    """
    return subprocess.check_output(command, shell=True).decode("utf-8")


agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
    tools=[execute_shell_command],
    markdown=True,
)

run_response = agent.run("What files do I have in my current directory?")
if run_response.is_paused:
    for tool in run_response.tools_awaiting_external_execution:
        if tool.tool_name == execute_shell_command.name:
            print(f"Executing {tool.tool_name} with args {tool.tool_args} externally")

            # We execute the tool ourselves. You can execute any function or process here and use the tool_args as input.
            result = execute_shell_command.entrypoint(**tool.tool_args)
            # We have to set the result on the tool execution object so that the agent can continue
            tool.result = result

    run_response = agent.continue_run()
    pprint.pprint_run_response(run_response)
```

## Best Practices

1. **Sanitise user input**: Always validate and sanitize user input to prevent security vulnerabilities.
2. **Error Handling**: Always implement proper error handling for user input and external calls
3. **Input Validation**: Validate user input before processing

<Note>
  If you are using streaming, it is recommended to pass the `run_id` and a list of `updated_tools` to the `continue_run` or `acontinue_run` method.
  See an example [here](/examples/concepts/user-control-flows/10-external-tool-execution-stream.mdx).
</Note>

## Developer Resources

- View more [Examples](/examples/concepts/user-control-flows)
- View [Cookbook](https://github.com/agno-agi/agno/tree/main/cookbook/agent_concepts/user_control_flows)
