evals/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction
---

## What are Evals?

**Evals** are unit tests for your Agents. Use them judiciously to evaluate, measure and improve the performance of your Agents over time.

We typically evaludate Agents on 3 dimensions:

- **Accuracy:** How complete/correct/accurate is the Agent's response (LLM-as-a-judge)
- **Performance:** How fast does the Agent respond and what's the memory footprint?
- **Reliability:** Does the Agent make the expected tool calls?

### Accuracy

Accuracy evals use input/output pairs to evaluate the Agent's performance. They use another model to score the Agent's responses (LLM-as-a-judge).

#### Example

```python calculate_accuracy.py
from typing import Optional

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.eval.accuracy import AccuracyEval, AccuracyResult
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools.calculator import CalculatorTools


def multiply_and_exponentiate():
    evaluation = AccuracyEval(
        agent=Agent(
            model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
            tools=[CalculatorTools(add=True, multiply=True, exponentiate=True)],
        ),
        prompt="What is 10*5 then to the power of 2? do it step by step",
        expected_answer="2500",
        num_iterations=1
    )
    result: Optional[AccuracyResult] = evaluation.run(print_results=True)

    assert result is not None and result.avg_score >= 8


if __name__ == "__main__":
    multiply_and_exponentiate()
```

### Performance

Performance evals measure the latency and memory footprint of the Agent operations.

<Note>
While latency will be dominated by the model API response time, we should still keep performance top of mind and track the agent performance with and without certain components. Eg: it would be good to know what's the average latency with and without storage, memory, with a new prompt, or with a new model.
</Note>

#### Example

```python storage_performance.py
"""Run `pip install openai agno` to install dependencies."""

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.eval.perf import PerfEval

def simple_response():
    agent = Agent(model=OpenAIChat(id='gpt-4o-mini'), system_message='Be concise, reply with one sentence.', add_history_to_messages=True)
    response_1 = agent.run('What is the capital of France?')
    print(response_1.content)
    response_2 = agent.run('How many people live there?')
    print(response_2.content)
    return response_2.content


simple_response_perf = PerfEval(func=simple_response, num_iterations=1, warmup_runs=0)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    simple_response_perf.run(print_results=True)
```

### Reliability

What makes an Agent reliable?

- Does the Agent make the expected tool calls?
- Does the Agent handle errors gracefully?
- Does the Agent respect the rate limits of the model API?

#### Example

The first check is to ensure the Agent makes the expected tool calls. Here's an example:

```python reliability.py
from typing import Optional

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.eval.reliability import ReliabilityEval, ReliabilityResult
from agno.tools.calculator import CalculatorTools
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.run.response import RunResponse


def multiply_and_exponentiate():

    agent=Agent(
        model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
        tools=[CalculatorTools(add=True, multiply=True, exponentiate=True)],
    )
    response: RunResponse = agent.run("What is 10*5 then to the power of 2? do it step by step")
    evaluation = ReliabilityEval(
        agent_response=response,
        expected_tool_calls=["multiply", "exponentiate"],
    )
    result: Optional[ReliabilityResult] = evaluation.run(print_results=True)
    result.assert_passed()


if __name__ == "__main__":
    multiply_and_exponentiate()
```

<Note>
Reliability evals are currently in `beta`.
</Note>

Commit message:

refactor: update introduction to Evals with description and modify prompt format

evals/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Evals
description: Evals are unit tests for your Agents. Use them judiciously to evaluate, measure and improve the performance of your Agents over time.
---

## What are Evals?

**Evals** are unit tests for your Agents. Use them judiciously to evaluate, measure and improve the performance of your Agents over time.

We typically evaludate Agents on 3 dimensions:

- **Accuracy:** How complete/correct/accurate is the Agent's response (LLM-as-a-judge)
- **Performance:** How fast does the Agent respond and what's the memory footprint?
- **Reliability:** Does the Agent make the expected tool calls?

### Accuracy

Accuracy evals use input/output pairs to evaluate the Agent's performance. They use another model to score the Agent's responses (LLM-as-a-judge).

#### Example

```python calculate_accuracy.py
from typing import Optional

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.eval.accuracy import AccuracyEval, AccuracyResult
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools.calculator import CalculatorTools


def multiply_and_exponentiate():
    evaluation = AccuracyEval(
        agent=Agent(
            model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
            tools=[CalculatorTools(add=True, multiply=True, exponentiate=True)],
        ),
        question="What is 10*5 then to the power of 2? do it step by step",
        expected_answer="2500",
        num_iterations=1
    )
    result: Optional[AccuracyResult] = evaluation.run(print_results=True)

    assert result is not None and result.avg_score >= 8


if __name__ == "__main__":
    multiply_and_exponentiate()
```

### Performance

Performance evals measure the latency and memory footprint of the Agent operations.

<Note>
While latency will be dominated by the model API response time, we should still keep performance top of mind and track the agent performance with and without certain components. Eg: it would be good to know what's the average latency with and without storage, memory, with a new prompt, or with a new model.
</Note>

#### Example

```python storage_performance.py
"""Run `pip install openai agno` to install dependencies."""

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.eval.perf import PerfEval

def simple_response():
    agent = Agent(model=OpenAIChat(id='gpt-4o-mini'), system_message='Be concise, reply with one sentence.', add_history_to_messages=True)
    response_1 = agent.run('What is the capital of France?')
    print(response_1.content)
    response_2 = agent.run('How many people live there?')
    print(response_2.content)
    return response_2.content


simple_response_perf = PerfEval(func=simple_response, num_iterations=1, warmup_runs=0)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    simple_response_perf.run(print_results=True)
```

### Reliability

What makes an Agent reliable?

- Does the Agent make the expected tool calls?
- Does the Agent handle errors gracefully?
- Does the Agent respect the rate limits of the model API?

#### Example

The first check is to ensure the Agent makes the expected tool calls. Here's an example:

```python reliability.py
from typing import Optional

from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.eval.reliability import ReliabilityEval, ReliabilityResult
from agno.tools.calculator import CalculatorTools
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.run.response import RunResponse


def multiply_and_exponentiate():

    agent=Agent(
        model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
        tools=[CalculatorTools(add=True, multiply=True, exponentiate=True)],
    )
    response: RunResponse = agent.run("What is 10*5 then to the power of 2? do it step by step")
    evaluation = ReliabilityEval(
        agent_response=response,
        expected_tool_calls=["multiply", "exponentiate"],
    )
    result: Optional[ReliabilityResult] = evaluation.run(print_results=True)
    result.assert_passed()


if __name__ == "__main__":
    multiply_and_exponentiate()
```

<Note>
Reliability evals are currently in `beta`.
</Note>
