examples/models/langdb/basic_stream.mdx, before:

---
title: Streaming Agent
---

## Code

```python cookbook/models/langdb/basic_stream.py
from typing import Iterator  # noqa
from agno.agent import Agent, RunResponse  # noqa
from agno.models.langdb import LangDB

agent = Agent(model=LangDB(id="gpt-4o-mini"), markdown=True)

# Get the response in a variable
# run_response: Iterator[RunResponse] = agent.run("Share a 2 sentence horror story", stream=True)
# for chunk in run_response:
#     print(chunk.content)

# Print the response in the terminal
agent.print_response("Share a 2 sentence horror story", stream=True)
```

## Usage

<Steps>
  <Snippet file="create-venv-step.mdx" />

  <Step title="Set your API key">
    ```bash
    export LANGDB_API_KEY=xxx
    export LANGDB_PROJECT_ID=xxx
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Install libraries">
    ```bash
    pip install -U openai agno
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Run Agent">
    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Mac
    python cookbook/models/langdb/basic_stream.py
    ```

    ```bash Windows
    python cookbook/models/langdb/basic_stream.py
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Step>
</Steps>

Commit message:

feat: add LangDB documentation and examples
This commit introduces comprehensive documentation for LangDB, including:
- New entries in the main documentation structure for LangDB and its observability features.
- Examples demonstrating basic usage, streaming capabilities, and tool usage with LangDB.
- Updates to the compatibility matrix to include LangDB.
- Addition of images related to LangDB finance agent traces.

These changes aim to enhance user understanding and integration of LangDB within the Agno framework.

examples/models/langdb/basic_stream.mdx, after:

---
title: Streaming Agent
---

This example demonstrates streaming with [LangDB AI Gateway](https://langdb.ai/).

For detailed integration instructions, see the [LangDB Agno documentation](https://docs.langdb.ai/getting-started/working-with-agent-frameworks/working-with-agno).

## Code

```python cookbook/models/langdb/basic_stream.py
from typing import Iterator  # noqa
from agno.agent import Agent, RunResponse  # noqa
from agno.models.langdb import LangDB

agent = Agent(model=LangDB(id="gpt-4o-mini"), markdown=True)

# Get the response in a variable
# run_response: Iterator[RunResponse] = agent.run("Share a 2 sentence horror story", stream=True)
# for chunk in run_response:
#     print(chunk.content)

# Print the response in the terminal
agent.print_response("Share a 2 sentence horror story", stream=True)
```

## Usage

<Steps>
  <Snippet file="create-venv-step.mdx" />

  <Step title="Set your API key">
    ```bash
    export LANGDB_API_KEY=xxx
    export LANGDB_PROJECT_ID=xxx
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Install libraries">
    ```bash
    pip install -U openai agno
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Run Agent">
    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Mac
    python cookbook/models/langdb/basic_stream.py
    ```

    ```bash Windows
    python cookbook/models/langdb/basic_stream.py
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Step>
</Steps>
