examples/models/langdb/tool_use.mdx, before:

---
title: Finance Agent with Tools
---

## Code

```python cookbook/models/langdb/finance_agent.py
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.langdb import LangDB
from agno.tools.yfinance import YFinanceTools

agent = Agent(
    model=LangDB(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
    tools=[
        YFinanceTools(
            stock_price=True, analyst_recommendations=True, stock_fundamentals=True
        )
    ],
    show_tool_calls=True,
    description="You are an investment analyst that researches stocks and helps users make informed decisions.",
    instructions=["Use tables to display data where possible."],
    markdown=True,
)

# agent.print_response("Share the NVDA stock price and analyst recommendations", stream=True)
agent.print_response("Summarize fundamentals for TSLA", stream=True)
```

## Usage

<Steps>
  <Snippet file="create-venv-step.mdx" />

  <Step title="Set your API key">
    ```bash
    export LANGDB_API_KEY=xxx
    export LANGDB_PROJECT_ID=xxx
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Install libraries">
    ```bash
    pip install -U yfinance agno
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Run Agent">
    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Mac
    python cookbook/models/langdb/finance_agent.py
    ```

    ```bash Windows
    python cookbook/models/langdb/finance_agent.py
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Step>
</Steps>

Commit message:

feat: add LangDB documentation and examples
This commit introduces comprehensive documentation for LangDB, including:
- New entries in the main documentation structure for LangDB and its observability features.
- Examples demonstrating basic usage, streaming capabilities, and tool usage with LangDB.
- Updates to the compatibility matrix to include LangDB.
- Addition of images related to LangDB finance agent traces.

These changes aim to enhance user understanding and integration of LangDB within the Agno framework.

examples/models/langdb/tool_use.mdx, after:

---
title: Finance Agent with Tools
---

This example demonstrates tool usage with [LangDB AI Gateway](https://langdb.ai/).

For detailed integration instructions, see the [LangDB Agno documentation](https://docs.langdb.ai/getting-started/working-with-agent-frameworks/working-with-agno).

## Code

```python cookbook/models/langdb/finance_agent.py
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.langdb import LangDB
from agno.tools.yfinance import YFinanceTools

agent = Agent(
    model=LangDB(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
    tools=[
        YFinanceTools(
            stock_price=True, analyst_recommendations=True, stock_fundamentals=True
        )
    ],
    show_tool_calls=True,
    description="You are an investment analyst that researches stocks and helps users make informed decisions.",
    instructions=["Use tables to display data where possible."],
    markdown=True,
)

# agent.print_response("Share the NVDA stock price and analyst recommendations", stream=True)
agent.print_response("Summarize fundamentals for TSLA", stream=True)
```

## Usage

<Steps>
  <Snippet file="create-venv-step.mdx" />

  <Step title="Set your API key">
    ```bash
    export LANGDB_API_KEY=xxx
    export LANGDB_PROJECT_ID=xxx
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Install libraries">
    ```bash
    pip install -U yfinance agno
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Run Agent">
    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Mac
    python cookbook/models/langdb/finance_agent.py
    ```

    ```bash Windows
    python cookbook/models/langdb/finance_agent.py
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Step>
</Steps>
