get-started/playground.mdx, before:

---
title: Agent Playground
description: "**Agno provides a beautiful Agent UI for interacting with your agents.**"
---

<Frame caption="Agent Playground">
  <img
    height="200"
    src="/images/agent_playground.png"
    style={{ borderRadius: '8px' }}
  />
</Frame>

<Note>
No data is sent to [agno.com](https://app.agno.com), all agent data is stored locally in your sqlite database.
</Note>

## Running Playground Locally

Let's run the playground application locally so we can chat with our Agents using the Agent UI. Create a file `playground.py`

```python playground.py
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.playground import Playground, serve_playground_app
from agno.storage.agent.sqlite import SqliteAgentStorage
from agno.tools.duckduckgo import DuckDuckGoTools
from agno.tools.yfinance import YFinanceTools

agent_storage: str = "tmp/agents.db"

web_agent = Agent(
    name="Web Agent",
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[DuckDuckGoTools()],
    instructions=["Always include sources"],
    # Store the agent sessions in a sqlite database
    storage=SqliteAgentStorage(table_name="web_agent", db_file=agent_storage),
    # Adds the current date and time to the instructions
    add_datetime_to_instructions=True,
    # Adds the history of the conversation to the messages
    add_history_to_messages=True,
    # Number of history responses to add to the messages
    num_history_responses=5,
    # Adds markdown formatting to the messages
    markdown=True,
)

finance_agent = Agent(
    name="Finance Agent",
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[YFinanceTools(stock_price=True, analyst_recommendations=True, company_info=True, company_news=True)],
    instructions=["Always use tables to display data"],
    storage=SqliteAgentStorage(table_name="finance_agent", db_file=agent_storage),
    add_datetime_to_instructions=True,
    add_history_to_messages=True,
    num_history_responses=5,
    markdown=True,
)

app = Playground(agents=[web_agent, finance_agent]).get_app()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    serve_playground_app("playground:app", reload=True)
```

Remember to export your `OPENAI_API_KEY` before running the playground application.

<Tip>Make sure the `serve_playground_app()` points to the file that contains your `Playground` app.</Tip>

## Authenticate with Agno

Authenticate with agno.com so your local application can let agno know that you are running a playground application. Run:

<Note>
No data is sent to agno.com, only that you're running a playground application at port 7777.
</Note>

```shell
ag setup
```

[or] export your `AGNO_API_KEY` from [app.agno.com](https://app.agno.com)

<CodeGroup>
```bash Mac
export AGNO_API_KEY=ag-***
```

```bash Windows
setx AGNO_API_KEY ag-***
```
</CodeGroup>


## Run the playground app

Install dependencies and run your playground application:

```shell
pip install openai duckduckgo-search yfinance sqlalchemy 'fastapi[standard]' agno

python playground.py
```

## View the playground

- Open the link provided or navigate to `http://app.agno.com/playground` (login required)
- Select the `localhost:7777` endpoint and start chatting with your agents!

<video
  autoPlay
  muted
  controls
  className="w-full aspect-video"
  src="/images/AgentPlayground.mp4"
></video>

Commit message:

add open-source Agent UI section

get-started/playground.mdx, after:

---
title: Agent Playground
description: "**Agno provides a beautiful Agent UI for interacting with your agents.**"
---

<Frame caption="Agent Playground">
  <img
    height="200"
    src="/images/agent_playground.png"
    style={{ borderRadius: '8px' }}
  />
</Frame>

<Note>
No data is sent to [agno.com](https://app.agno.com), all agent data is stored locally in your sqlite database.
</Note>

## Running Playground Locally

Let's run the playground application locally so we can chat with our Agents using the Agent UI. Create a file `playground.py`

```python playground.py
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.playground import Playground, serve_playground_app
from agno.storage.agent.sqlite import SqliteAgentStorage
from agno.tools.duckduckgo import DuckDuckGoTools
from agno.tools.yfinance import YFinanceTools

agent_storage: str = "tmp/agents.db"

web_agent = Agent(
    name="Web Agent",
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[DuckDuckGoTools()],
    instructions=["Always include sources"],
    # Store the agent sessions in a sqlite database
    storage=SqliteAgentStorage(table_name="web_agent", db_file=agent_storage),
    # Adds the current date and time to the instructions
    add_datetime_to_instructions=True,
    # Adds the history of the conversation to the messages
    add_history_to_messages=True,
    # Number of history responses to add to the messages
    num_history_responses=5,
    # Adds markdown formatting to the messages
    markdown=True,
)

finance_agent = Agent(
    name="Finance Agent",
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[YFinanceTools(stock_price=True, analyst_recommendations=True, company_info=True, company_news=True)],
    instructions=["Always use tables to display data"],
    storage=SqliteAgentStorage(table_name="finance_agent", db_file=agent_storage),
    add_datetime_to_instructions=True,
    add_history_to_messages=True,
    num_history_responses=5,
    markdown=True,
)

app = Playground(agents=[web_agent, finance_agent]).get_app()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    serve_playground_app("playground:app", reload=True)
```

Remember to export your `OPENAI_API_KEY` before running the playground application.

<Tip>Make sure the `serve_playground_app()` points to the file that contains your `Playground` app.</Tip>

## Authenticate with Agno

Authenticate with agno.com so your local application can let agno know that you are running a playground application. Run:

<Note>
No data is sent to agno.com, only that you're running a playground application at port 7777.
</Note>

```shell
ag setup
```

[or] export your `AGNO_API_KEY` from [app.agno.com](https://app.agno.com/settings)

<CodeGroup>
```bash Mac
export AGNO_API_KEY=ag-***
```

```bash Windows
setx AGNO_API_KEY ag-***
```
</CodeGroup>


## Run the playground app

Install dependencies and run your playground application:

```shell
pip install openai duckduckgo-search yfinance sqlalchemy 'fastapi[standard]' agno

python playground.py
```

## View the playground

- Open the link provided or navigate to `http://app.agno.com/playground` (login required)
- Select the `localhost:7777` endpoint and start chatting with your agents!

<video
  autoPlay
  muted
  controls
  className="w-full aspect-video"
  src="/images/AgentPlayground.mp4"
></video>


## Open Source Agent UI

Looking for a self-hosted alternative? Check out our Open Source [Agent UI](https://github.com/agno-ai/agno-ui) - a modern chat interface built with Next.js and TypeScript that works with the Agno Playground backend.

<Frame caption="Agent UI Interface">
  <img
    src="/images/agent-ui.png"
    style={{ borderRadius: '10px', width: '100%', maxWidth: '800px' }}
    alt="agent-ui"
  />
</Frame>

### Quick Start

```bash
# Create a new Agent UI project
npx create-agent-ui@latest

# Or clone and run manually
git clone https://github.com/agno-agi/agent-ui.git
cd agent-ui && pnpm install && pnpm dev
```

The UI will connect to `localhost:7777` by default, matching the Playground setup above. Visit [GitHub](https://github.com/agno-ai/agno-ui) for more details.
