models/azure-openai.mdx, before:

---
title: Azure OpenAI
description: Learn how to use Azure OpenAI models in Agno.
---

Use OpenAI models through Azure's infrastructure. Learn more [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-services/openai/overview).

Azure OpenAI provides access to OpenAI's models like `GPT-4o`, `o3-mini`, and more.

## Authentication

Navigate to Azure OpenAI on the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/) and create a service. Then, using the Azure AI Studio portal, create a deployment and set your environment variables:

<CodeGroup>

```bash Mac
export AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=***
export AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=***  # Of the form https://<your-resource-name>.openai.azure.com/openai/deployments/<your-deployment-name>
# Optional:
# export AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT=***
```

```bash Windows
setx AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY ***  # Of the form https://<your-resource-name>.openai.azure.com/openai/deployments/<your-deployment-name>
setx AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT ***
# Optional:
# setx AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT ***
```

</CodeGroup>

## Example

Use `AzureOpenAI` with your `Agent`:

<CodeGroup>

```python agent.py
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.azure import AzureOpenAI
from os import getenv

agent = Agent(
    model=AzureOpenAI(id="gpt-4o"),
    markdown=True
)

# Print the response on the terminal
agent.print_response("Share a 2 sentence horror story.")
```

</CodeGroup>

## Advanced Examples

View more examples [here](../examples/models/azure/openai).

## Parameters

<Snippet file="model-azure-openai-params.mdx" />

`AzureOpenAI` also supports the parameters of [OpenAI](/reference/models/openai).

Commit message:

feat: mention prompt caching in relevant models

models/azure-openai.mdx, after:

---
title: Azure OpenAI
description: Learn how to use Azure OpenAI models in Agno.
---

Use OpenAI models through Azure's infrastructure. Learn more [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-services/openai/overview).

Azure OpenAI provides access to OpenAI's models like `GPT-4o`, `o3-mini`, and more.

## Authentication

Navigate to Azure OpenAI on the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/) and create a service. Then, using the Azure AI Studio portal, create a deployment and set your environment variables:

<CodeGroup>

```bash Mac
export AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=***
export AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=***  # Of the form https://<your-resource-name>.openai.azure.com/openai/deployments/<your-deployment-name>
# Optional:
# export AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT=***
```

```bash Windows
setx AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY ***  # Of the form https://<your-resource-name>.openai.azure.com/openai/deployments/<your-deployment-name>
setx AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT ***
# Optional:
# setx AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT ***
```

</CodeGroup>

## Example

Use `AzureOpenAI` with your `Agent`:

<CodeGroup>

```python agent.py
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.azure import AzureOpenAI
from os import getenv

agent = Agent(
    model=AzureOpenAI(id="gpt-4o"),
    markdown=True
)

# Print the response on the terminal
agent.print_response("Share a 2 sentence horror story.")
```

</CodeGroup>

## Prompt caching

Prompt caching will happen automatically using our `AzureOpenAI` model. You can read more about how OpenAI handle caching in [their docs](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/prompt-caching).

## Advanced Examples

View more examples [here](../examples/models/azure/openai).

## Parameters

<Snippet file="model-azure-openai-params.mdx" />

`AzureOpenAI` also supports the parameters of [OpenAI](/reference/models/openai).
