models/dashscope.mdx, before:

---
title: Dashscope
description: Learn how to use Dashscope Qwen models in Agno.
---

Dashscope provides access to Alibaba Cloud's Qwen family of large language models. Qwen models are multilingual, efficient, and offer strong performance across various tasks including reasoning, coding, and creative writing.

We recommend experimenting to find the best-suited model for your use-case. Here are some general recommendations:

- `qwen-plus` is good for most general use-cases with balanced performance and cost.
- `qwen-max` offers the highest quality for complex reasoning tasks.
- `qwen-turbo` provides faster inference for simpler tasks.

Dashscope also supports advanced features like structured outputs and thinking processes for enhanced reasoning capabilities.

## Authentication

Set your `DASHSCOPE_API_KEY` environment variable. You can get one [from Alibaba Cloud here](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/model-studio/get-api-key).

<CodeGroup>

```bash Mac
export DASHSCOPE_API_KEY=sk-***
```

```bash Windows
setx DASHSCOPE_API_KEY sk-***
```

</CodeGroup>

## Example

Use `DashScope` with your `Agent`:

<CodeGroup>

```python agent.py
from agno.agent import Agent, RunResponse
from agno.models.dashscope import DashScope

agent = Agent(
    model=DashScope(id="qwen-plus"),
    markdown=True
)

# Print the response in the terminal
agent.print_response("Share a 2 sentence horror story.")
```

</CodeGroup>

## Thinking Process

DashScope models support enabling thinking processes for enhanced reasoning:

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.dashscope import DashScope

agent = Agent(
    model=DashScope(
        id="qwen-plus",
        enable_thinking=True,
        include_thoughts=True,
    ),
)
```

<Note> View more examples [here](../examples/models/dashscope). </Note>

## Params

<Snippet file="model-dashscope-params.mdx" />

`DashScope` also supports the params of [OpenAI](/reference/models/openai).

Commit message:

feat: added a note on available Dashscope base urls

models/dashscope.mdx, after:

---
title: Dashscope
description: Learn how to use Dashscope Qwen models in Agno.
---

Dashscope provides access to Alibaba Cloud's Qwen family of large language models. Qwen models are multilingual, efficient, and offer strong performance across various tasks including reasoning, coding, and creative writing.

We recommend experimenting to find the best-suited model for your use-case. Here are some general recommendations:

- `qwen-plus` is good for most general use-cases with balanced performance and cost.
- `qwen-max` offers the highest quality for complex reasoning tasks.
- `qwen-turbo` provides faster inference for simpler tasks.

Dashscope also supports advanced features like structured outputs and thinking processes for enhanced reasoning capabilities.

## Authentication

Set your `DASHSCOPE_API_KEY` environment variable. You can get one [from Alibaba Cloud here](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/model-studio/get-api-key).

<CodeGroup>

```bash Mac
export DASHSCOPE_API_KEY=sk-***
```

```bash Windows
setx DASHSCOPE_API_KEY sk-***
```

</CodeGroup>

## Base URL

Dashscope provides different base URLs depending on your region:

- **International users**:  
  `https://dashscope-intl.aliyuncs.com/compatible-mode/v1`
- **China mainland users**:  
  `https://dashscope.aliyuncs.com/compatible-mode/v1`

By default, Agno uses the international endpoint.  
If you are located in mainland China, you may need to override `base_url`

## Example

Use `DashScope` with your `Agent`:

<CodeGroup>

```python agent.py
from agno.agent import Agent, RunResponse
from agno.models.dashscope import DashScope

agent = Agent(
    model=DashScope(id="qwen-plus"),
    markdown=True
)

# Print the response in the terminal
agent.print_response("Share a 2 sentence horror story.")
```

</CodeGroup>

## Thinking Process

DashScope models support enabling thinking processes for enhanced reasoning:

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.dashscope import DashScope

agent = Agent(
    model=DashScope(
        id="qwen-plus",
        enable_thinking=True,
        include_thoughts=True,
    ),
)
```

<Note> View more examples [here](../examples/models/dashscope). </Note>

## Params

<Snippet file="model-dashscope-params.mdx" />

`DashScope` also supports the params of [OpenAI](/reference/models/openai).
