models/fireworks.mdx, before:

---
title: Fireworks
description: Learn how to use Fireworks models in Agno.
---

Fireworks is a platform for providing endpoints for Large Language models.

## Authentication

Set your `FIREWORKS_API_KEY` environment variable. Get your key from [here](https://fireworks.ai/account/api-keys).

<CodeGroup>

```bash Mac
export FIREWORKS_API_KEY=***
```

```bash Windows
setx FIREWORKS_API_KEY ***
```

</CodeGroup>

## Example

Use `Fireworks` with your `Agent`:

<CodeGroup>

```python agent.py
from agno.agent import Agent, RunResponse
from agno.models.fireworks import Fireworks

agent = Agent(
    model=Fireworks(id="accounts/fireworks/models/firefunction-v2"),
    markdown=True
)

# Print the response in the terminal
agent.print_response("Share a 2 sentence horror story.")

```

</CodeGroup>

<Note> View more examples [here](../examples/models/fireworks). </Note>

## Params

<Snippet file="model-fireworks-params.mdx" />

`Fireworks` also supports the params of [OpenAI](/reference/models/openai).

Commit message:

feat: mention prompt caching in relevant models

models/fireworks.mdx, after:

---
title: Fireworks
description: Learn how to use Fireworks models in Agno.
---

Fireworks is a platform for providing endpoints for Large Language models.

## Authentication

Set your `FIREWORKS_API_KEY` environment variable. Get your key from [here](https://fireworks.ai/account/api-keys).

<CodeGroup>

```bash Mac
export FIREWORKS_API_KEY=***
```

```bash Windows
setx FIREWORKS_API_KEY ***
```

</CodeGroup>

## Prompt caching

Prompt caching will happen automatically using our `Fireworks` model. You can read more about how Fireworks handle caching in [their docs](https://docs.fireworks.ai/guides/prompt-caching#using-prompt-caching).


## Example

Use `Fireworks` with your `Agent`:

<CodeGroup>

```python agent.py
from agno.agent import Agent, RunResponse
from agno.models.fireworks import Fireworks

agent = Agent(
    model=Fireworks(id="accounts/fireworks/models/firefunction-v2"),
    markdown=True
)

# Print the response in the terminal
agent.print_response("Share a 2 sentence horror story.")

```

</CodeGroup>

<Note> View more examples [here](../examples/models/fireworks). </Note>

## Params

<Snippet file="model-fireworks-params.mdx" />

`Fireworks` also supports the params of [OpenAI](/reference/models/openai).
