models/together.mdx, before:

---
title: Together
---

Together is a platform for providing endpoints for Large Language models.
See their library of models [here](https://www.together.ai/models).

We recommend experimenting to find the best-suited model for your use-case.

## Authentication

Set your `TOGETHER_API_KEY` environment variable. Get your key [from Together here](https://api.together.xyz/settings/api-keys).

<CodeGroup>

```bash Mac
export TOGETHER_API_KEY=***
```

```bash Windows
setx TOGETHER_API_KEY ***
```

</CodeGroup>

## Example

Use `Together` with your `Agent`:

<CodeGroup>

```python agent.py
from agno.agent import Agent, RunResponse
from agno.models.together import Together

agent = Agent(
    model=Together(id="meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct-Turbo"),
    markdown=True
)

# Print the response in the terminal
agent.print_response("Share a 2 sentence horror story.")
```

</CodeGroup>

<Note> View more examples [here](../examples/models/together). </Note>

## Params

<Snippet file="model-together-params.mdx" />

`Together` also supports the params of [OpenAI](/reference/models/openai).

Commit message:

Update gemini docs and examples for multimodal

models/together.mdx, after:

---
title: Together
---

Together is a platform for providing endpoints for Large Language models.
See their library of models [here](https://www.together.ai/models).

We recommend experimenting to find the best-suited model for your use-case.

Together have tier based rate limits. See the [docs](https://docs.together.ai/docs/rate-limits) for more information.

## Authentication

Set your `TOGETHER_API_KEY` environment variable. Get your key [from Together here](https://api.together.xyz/settings/api-keys).

<CodeGroup>

```bash Mac
export TOGETHER_API_KEY=***
```

```bash Windows
setx TOGETHER_API_KEY ***
```

</CodeGroup>

## Example

Use `Together` with your `Agent`:

<CodeGroup>

```python agent.py
from agno.agent import Agent, RunResponse
from agno.models.together import Together

agent = Agent(
    model=Together(id="meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct-Turbo"),
    markdown=True
)

# Print the response in the terminal
agent.print_response("Share a 2 sentence horror story.")
```

</CodeGroup>

<Note> View more examples [here](../examples/models/together). </Note>

## Params

<Snippet file="model-together-params.mdx" />

`Together` also supports the params of [OpenAI](/reference/models/openai).
